
# Preliminary


## Name of Plan [sec.1.1]

1.1 This Plan is Sydney Local Environmental Plan (Green Square Town Centre—Stage 2) 2013 .


## Commencement [sec.1.1AA]

1.1AA This Plan commences on the day on which it is published on the NSW legislation website.


## Aims of Plan [sec.1.2]

1.2 (1) This Plan aims to make local environmental planning provisions for land in the City of Sydney known as the Green Square Town Centre generally in accordance with the relevant standard environmental planning instrument under section 3.20 of the Act. (2) The particular aims of this Plan are as follows— (aa) to protect and promote the use and development of land for arts and cultural activity, including music and other performance arts, (a) to foster the environmental, economic, social and cultural well-being of the Green Square Urban Renewal Area by encouraging the establishment of Green Square Town Centre as the major commercial, retail, cultural and entertainment centre for Green Square, (b) to allow for a mix of land uses that will— (i) provide an appropriate balance between residential, retail, commercial and other land uses in the Green Square Town Centre, and (ii) encourage the provision of a range of services and facilities to help meet the needs of the population and users of the Green Square Town Centre, and (iii) generate employment in the Green Square Town Centre, and (iv) establish a significant new people-oriented public town square and other vibrant public plazas and public spaces, (c) to deliver environmental planning outcomes and benefits to the public and owners of land in the Green Square Town Centre that are significantly superior to those likely to result from development of the land in accordance with the local environmental planning instruments that formerly applied to that land, (d) to accommodate and integrate the management of stormwater (including floodwater) into the function and design of buildings and the public domain in the Green Square Town Centre, (e) to encourage the provision of a high-quality, safe and functional public domain that provides enhanced amenity and quality of life for the local community, (f) to ensure that the public domain of the Green Square Town Centre is fronted by high-quality buildings having a scale and alignment that both define and contribute positively to the amenity of the public spaces (including parks, plazas and streets) that they adjoin, (g) to maximise the use of public transport, walking and cycling by integrating land uses, access to public transport and services and the provision of on-site parking, (h) to ensure that development is designed to promote the vitality of the public domain by providing active frontages to the streets and other identified public spaces, including the location of active retail, food, drink and entertainment premises, and community and cultural facilities at ground level (particularly at the edge of public plazas), (i) to allow equitable access to, within and across the Green Square Town Centre for pedestrians, cyclists, public transport and other vehicles. cl 1.2: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.3[1]; 2020 (724), Sch 2[1].


## Land to which Plan applies [sec.1.3]

1.3 (1) This Plan applies to the land identified on the Land Application Map . (1A) Despite subclause (1), this Plan does not apply to the land identified as "Deferred matter" on the Land Application Map .


## Definitions [sec.1.4]

1.4 The Dictionary at the end of this Plan defines words and expressions for the purposes of this Plan.


## Notes [sec.1.5]

1.5 Notes in this Plan are provided for guidance and do not form part of this Plan.


## Consent authority [sec.1.6]

1.6 The consent authority for the purposes of this Plan is (subject to the Act) the Council. The City of Sydney Act 1988 constitutes the Central Sydney Planning Committee which has and may exercise the functions of the Council under Parts 4, 5 and 6 of that Act in relation to the carrying out of major development, to the exclusion of the Council.


## Maps [sec.1.7]

1.7 (1) A reference in this Plan to a named map adopted by this Plan is a reference to a map by that name— (a) approved by the local plan-making authority when the map is adopted, and (b) as amended or replaced from time to time by maps declared by environmental planning instruments to amend or replace that map, and approved by the local plan-making authority when the instruments are made. (2) Any 2 or more named maps may be combined into a single map. In that case, a reference in this Plan to any such named map is a reference to the relevant part or aspect of the single map. (3) Any such maps are to be kept and made available for public access in accordance with arrangements approved by the Minister. (4) For the purposes of this Plan, a map may be in, and may be kept and made available in, electronic or paper form, or both. The maps adopted by this Plan are to be made available on the official NSW legislation website in connection with this Plan. Requirements relating to the maps are set out in the documents entitled Standard technical requirements for LEP maps and Standard requirements for LEP GIS data which are available on the website of the Department of Planning and Infrastructure. cl 1.7: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.3[2].


## Repeal of planning instruments applying to land [sec.1.8]

1.8 (1) All local environmental plans and deemed environmental planning instruments applying only to the land to which this Plan applies are repealed. (2) All local environmental plans and deemed environmental planning instruments applying to the land to which this Plan applies and to other land cease to apply to the land to which this Plan applies. However, City of Sydney Planning Scheme Ordinance (1971) , South Sydney Local Environmental Plan 1998 and South Sydney Local Environmental Plan No 114 (Southern Industrial and Rosebery/Zetland Planning Districts) continue to apply to the land identified as "Deferred matter" on the Land Application Map under clause 1.3(1A).


## Savings provisions relating to development applications [sec.1.8A]

1.8A (1) If a development application has been made before the commencement of this Plan in relation to land to which this Plan applies and the application has not been finally determined before that commencement, the application must be determined as if this Plan had not commenced. However, under Division 3.5 of the Act, a development application may be made for consent to carry out development that may only be carried out if the environmental planning instrument applying to the relevant development is appropriately amended or if a new instrument, including an appropriate principal environmental planning instrument, is made, and the consent authority may consider the application. The Division requires public notice of the development application and the draft environmental planning instrument allowing the development at the same time, or as closely together as is practicable. (2) The amendments made to this Plan by State Environmental Planning Policy Amendment (Artisan Food and Drink Industries) 2018 and State Environmental Planning Policy Amendment (Land Use Terms) 2018 do not apply to a development application made but not determined before the commencement of those amendments. (3) The amendments made to this plan by Sydney Local Environmental Plan Amendment (Serviced Apartments) 2019 do not apply to a development application made but not finally determined before the commencement of those amendments. (4) The amendments made to this plan by State Environmental Planning Policy Amendment (Flood Planning) 2021 do not apply to a development application made but not finally determined before 14 July 2021. (5) The amendments made to this plan by Sydney Local Environmental Plan Amendment (Flood Planning) 2021 extend to a development application made on or after 14 July 2021. (6) A development application made, but not finally determined, before the commencement of State Environmental Planning Policy Amendment (Exceptions to Development Standards) 2023 must be determined as if that policy had not commenced. (7) A development application made, but not finally determined, before the commencement of State Environmental Planning Policy Amendment (Flood Planning) 2023 must be determined as if that policy had not commenced. cl 1.8A: Am 2018 (488), Sch 1.5 [1]; 2019 (621), Sch 5[1]; 2019 (661), Sch 1.4[1]; 2021 (412), Sch 3[1]; 2023 (524), Sch 1.1[2]; 2023 (609), Sch 2.1.


## Application of SEPPs [sec.1.9]

1.9 (1) This Plan is subject to the provisions of any State environmental planning policy that prevails over this Plan as provided by section 3.28 of the Act. (2) The following State environmental planning policies (or provisions) do not apply to the land to which this Plan applies— State Environmental Planning Policy No 1—Development Standards State Environmental Planning Policy No 4—Development Without Consent and Miscellaneous Exempt and Complying Development (clause 6 and Parts 3 and 4) State Environmental Planning Policy No 60—Exempt and Complying Development cl 1.9: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.3[3].


## Suspension of covenants, agreements and instruments [sec.1.9A]

1.9A (1) For the purpose of enabling development on land in any zone to be carried out in accordance with this Plan or with a consent granted under the Act, any agreement, covenant or other similar instrument that restricts the carrying out of that development does not apply to the extent necessary to serve that purpose. (2) This clause does not apply— (a) to a covenant imposed by the Council or that the Council requires to be imposed, or (b) to any relevant instrument within the meaning of section 13.4 of the Crown Land Management Act 2016 , or (c) to any conservation agreement within the meaning of the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974 , or (d) to any Trust agreement within the meaning of the Nature Conservation Trust Act 2001 , or (e) to any property vegetation plan within the meaning of the Native Vegetation Act 2003 , or (f) to any biobanking agreement within the meaning of Part 7A of the Threatened Species Conservation Act 1995 , or (g) to any planning agreement within the meaning of Subdivision 2 of Division 7.1 of the Act. (3) This clause does not affect the rights or interests of any public authority under any registered instrument. (4) Under section 3.16 of the Act, the Governor, before the making of this clause, approved of subclauses (1)&#8211;(3). cl 1.9A: Am 2019 (621), Sch 5[2]&#8211;[4].


# Permitted or prohibited development


## Land use zones [sec.2.1]

2.1 The land use zones under this Plan are as follows— E2 Commercial Centre MU1 Mixed Use cl 2.1: Am 2022 (677), Sch 1[1]; 2022 (828), Sch 1.21[1] (am 2023 (82), Sch 1.2[8]).


## Zoning of land to which Plan applies [sec.2.2]

2.2 For the purposes of this Plan, land is within the zones shown on the Land Zoning Map .


## Zone objectives and Land Use Table [sec.2.3]

2.3 (1) The Land Use Table at the end of this Part specifies for each zone— (a) the objectives for development, and (b) development that may be carried out without development consent, and (c) development that may be carried out only with development consent, and (d) development that is prohibited. (2) The consent authority must have regard to the objectives for development in a zone when determining a development application in respect of land within the zone. (3) In the Land Use Table at the end of this Part— (a) a reference to a type of building or other thing is a reference to development for the purposes of that type of building or other thing, and (b) a reference to a type of building or other thing does not include (despite any definition in this Plan) a reference to a type of building or other thing referred to separately in the Land Use Table in relation to the same zone. (4) This clause is subject to the other provisions of this Plan. 1 Schedule 1 sets out additional permitted uses for particular land. 2 Schedule 2 sets out exempt development (which is generally exempt from both Parts 4 and 5 of the Act). Development in the land use table that may be carried out without consent is nevertheless subject to the environmental assessment and approval requirements of Part 5 of the Act. 3 Schedule 3 sets out complying development (for which a complying development certificate may be issued as an alternative to obtaining development consent). 4 Clause 2.6 requires consent for subdivision of land. 5 Part 5 contains other provisions which require consent for particular development. cl 2.3: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.3[4].


## Unzoned land [sec.2.4]

2.4 (1) Development may be carried out on unzoned land only with development consent. (2) Before granting development consent, the consent authority— (a) must consider whether the development will impact on adjoining zoned land and, if so, consider the objectives for development in the zones of the adjoining land, and (b) must be satisfied that the development is appropriate and is compatible with permissible land uses in any such adjoining land.


## Additional permitted uses for particular land [sec.2.5]

2.5 (1) Development on particular land that is described or referred to in Schedule 1 may be carried out— (a) with development consent, or (b) if the Schedule so provides—without development consent, in accordance with the conditions (if any) specified in that Schedule in relation to that development. (2) This clause has effect despite anything to the contrary in the Land Use Table or other provision of this Plan.


## Subdivision—consent requirement [sec.2.6]

2.6 (1) Land to which this Plan applies may be subdivided, but only with development consent. 1 If a subdivision is specified as exempt development in an applicable environmental planning instrument, such as this Plan or State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008 , the Act enables it to be carried out without development consent. 2 Part 6 of State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008 provides that the strata subdivision of a building in certain circumstances is complying development . (2) Development consent must not be granted for the subdivision of land on which a secondary dwelling is situated if the subdivision would result in the principal dwelling and the secondary dwelling being situated on separate lots, unless the resulting lots are not less than the minimum size shown on the Lot Size Map in relation to that land. The definition of secondary dwelling in the Dictionary requires the dwelling to be on the same lot of land as the principal dwelling.


## Demolition requires development consent [sec.2.7]

2.7 The demolition of a building or work may be carried out only with development consent. If the demolition of a building or work is identified in an applicable environmental planning instrument, such as this Plan or State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008 , as exempt development, the Act enables it to be carried out without development consent.


## Temporary use of land [sec.2.8]

2.8 (1) The objective of this clause is to provide for the temporary use of land if the use does not compromise future development of the land, or have detrimental economic, social, amenity or environmental effects on the land. (2) Despite any other provision of this Plan, development consent may be granted for development on land in any zone for a temporary use for a maximum period of 52 days (whether or not consecutive days) in any period of 12 months. (3) Development consent must not be granted unless the consent authority is satisfied that— (a) the temporary use will not prejudice the subsequent carrying out of development on the land in accordance with this Plan and any other applicable environmental planning instrument, and (b) the temporary use will not adversely impact on any adjoining land or the amenity of the neighbourhood, and (c) the temporary use and location of any structures related to the use will not adversely impact on environmental attributes or features of the land, or increase the risk of natural hazards that may affect the land, and (d) at the end of the temporary use period the land will, as far as is practicable, be restored to the condition in which it was before the commencement of the use. (4) Despite subclause (2), the temporary use of a dwelling as a sales office for a new release area or a new housing estate may exceed the maximum number of days specified in that subclause. (5) Subclause (3)(d) does not apply to the temporary use of a dwelling as a sales office mentioned in subclause (4).


# Land Use Table


## Objectives of zone [sec.1]

1 &#8226; To strengthen the role of the commercial centre as the centre of business, retail, community and cultural activity. &#8226; To encourage investment in commercial development that generates employment opportunities and economic growth. &#8226; To encourage development that has a high level of accessibility and amenity, particularly for pedestrians. &#8226; To enable residential development only if it is consistent with the Council's strategic planning for residential development in the area. &#8226; To ensure that new development provides diverse and active street frontages to attract pedestrian traffic and to contribute to vibrant, diverse and functional streets and public spaces.


## Permitted without consent [sec.2]


## Permitted with consent [sec.3]

3 Backpackers' accommodation; Hotel or motel accommodation; Light industries; Any other development not specified in item 2 or 4


## Prohibited [sec.4]

4 Agriculture; Air transport facilities; Airstrips; Boat building and repair facilities; Boat launching ramps; Boat sheds; Caravan parks; Cemeteries; Charter and tourism boating facilities; Correctional centres; Crematoria; Depots; Electricity generating works; Environmental protection works; Exhibition homes; Exhibition villages; Extractive industries; Farm buildings; Forestry; Freight transport facilities; Hardware and building supplies; Helipads; Highway service centres; Home-based child care; Home businesses; Home industries; Home occupations; Industrial retail outlets; Industries; Jetties; Mortuaries; Port facilities; Recreation facilities (major); Recreation facilities (outdoor); Residential accommodation; Rural industries; Rural supplies; Sewerage systems; Sex services premises; Specialised retail premises; Storage premises; Tourist and visitor accommodation; Transport depots; Truck depots; Vehicle body repair workshops; Vehicle repair stations; Veterinary hospitals; Warehouse or distribution centres; Waste or resource management facilities; Water recreation structures; Water supply systems; Wholesale supplies Zone MU1


## Objectives of zone [sec.1-oc.2]

1 &#8226; To encourage a diversity of business, retail, office and light industrial land uses that generate employment opportunities. &#8226; To ensure that new development provides diverse and active street frontages to attract pedestrian traffic and to contribute to vibrant, diverse and functional streets and public spaces. &#8226; To minimise conflict between land uses within this zone and land uses within adjoining zones. &#8226; To encourage business, retail, community and other non-residential land uses on the ground floor of buildings. &#8226; To enable land uses that support the viability of centres. &#8226; To integrate suitable business, office, residential, retail and other development in accessible locations to maximise public transport patronage and encourage walking and cycling.


## Permitted without consent [sec.2-oc.2]


## Permitted with consent [sec.3-oc.2]

3 Amusement centres; Boarding houses; Car parks; Centre-based child care facilities; Commercial premises; Community facilities; Entertainment facilities; Function centres; Information and education facilities; Light industries; Local distribution premises; Medical centres; Oyster aquaculture; Passenger transport facilities; Places of public worship; Recreation areas; Recreation facilities (indoor); Registered clubs; Respite day care centres; Restricted premises; Shop top housing; Tank-based aquaculture; Tourist and visitor accommodation; Vehicle repair stations; Any other development not specified in item 2 or 4


## Prohibited [sec.4-oc.2]

4 Extractive industries; Heavy industrial storage establishments; Heavy industries; Pond-based aquaculture


# Exempt and complying development


## Exempt development [sec.3.1]

3.1 (1) The objective of this clause is to identify development of minimal environmental impact as exempt development. (2) Development specified in Schedule 2 that meets the standards for the development contained in that Schedule and that complies with the requirements of this Part is exempt development. (3) To be exempt development, the development— (a) must meet the relevant deemed-to-satisfy provisions of the Building Code of Australia or, if there are no such relevant provisions, must be structurally adequate, and (b) must not, if it relates to an existing building, cause the building to contravene the Building Code of Australia , and (c) must not be designated development, and (d) must not be carried out on land that comprises, or on which there is, an item that is listed on the State Heritage Register under the Heritage Act 1977 or that is subject to an interim heritage order under the Heritage Act 1977 . (4) Development that relates to an existing building that is classified under the Building Code of Australia as class 1b or class 2&#8211;9 is exempt development only if— (a) the building has a current fire safety certificate or fire safety statement, or (b) no fire safety measures are currently implemented, required or proposed for the building. (5) To be exempt development, the development must— (a) be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications, if applicable, and (b) not involve the removal or pruning of a tree or other vegetation that requires a permit or development consent for removal or pruning, unless that removal or pruning is undertaken in accordance with a permit or development consent. A permit for the removal or pruning of a tree or other vegetation may be granted under this Plan. A development consent for the removal of native vegetation may be granted where relevant under the Native Vegetation Act 2003 . (6) A heading to an item in Schedule 2 is part of that Schedule. cl 3.1: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.3[5].


## Complying development [sec.3.2]

3.2 Under section 4.2 of the Act, development consent for the carrying out of complying development may be obtained by the issue of a complying development certificate. The section states that development cannot be complying development if— (a) it is on land that is critical habitat of an endangered species, population or ecological community (identified under the Threatened Species Conservation Act 1995 or the Fisheries Management Act 1994 ), or (b) it is on land within a wilderness area (identified under the Wilderness Act 1987 ), or (c) the development is designated development, or (d) the development is on land that comprises, or on which there is, an item of environmental heritage (that is listed on the State Heritage Register or in Schedule 5 to this Plan or that is subject to an interim heritage order under the Heritage Act 1977 ), or (e) the development requires concurrence (except a concurrence of the Planning Secretary in respect of development that is likely to significantly affect a threatened species, population, or ecological community, or its habitat (identified under the Threatened Species Conservation Act 1995 )), or (f) the development is on land identified as an environmentally sensitive area. (1) The objective of this clause is to identify development as complying development. (2) Development specified in Part 1 of Schedule 3 that is carried out in compliance with— (a) the development standards specified in relation to that development, and (b) the requirements of this Part, is complying development. See also clause 5.8(3) which provides that the conversion of fire alarms is complying development in certain circumstances. (3) To be complying development, the development must— (a) be permissible, with development consent, in the zone in which it is carried out, and (b) meet the relevant deemed-to-satisfy provisions of the Building Code of Australia , and (c) have an approval, if required by the Local Government Act 1993 , from the Council for an on-site effluent disposal system if the development is undertaken on unsewered land. (4) A complying development certificate for development specified in Part 1 of Schedule 3 is subject to the conditions (if any) set out or referred to in Part 2 of that Schedule. (5) A heading to an item in Schedule 3 is part of that Schedule. cl 3.2: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.3[6].


## Environmentally sensitive areas excluded [sec.3.3]

3.3 (1) Exempt or complying development must not be carried out on any environmentally sensitive area for exempt or complying development. (2) For the purposes of this clause— environmentally sensitive area for exempt or complying development means any of the following— (a) the coastal waters of the State, (b) a coastal lake, (c) land within the coastal wetlands and littoral rainforests area (within the meaning of the Coastal Management Act 2016 ), (d) land reserved as an aquatic reserve under the Fisheries Management Act 1994 or as a marine park under the Marine Parks Act 1997 , (e) land within a wetland of international significance declared under the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands or within a World heritage area declared under the World Heritage Convention, (f) land within 100 metres of land to which paragraph (c), (d) or (e) applies, (g) land identified in this or any other environmental planning instrument as being of high Aboriginal cultural significance or high biodiversity significance, (h) land reserved under the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974 or land acquired under Part 11 of that Act, (i) land reserved or dedicated under the Crown Land Management Act 2016 for the preservation of flora, fauna, geological formations or for other environmental protection purposes, (j) land identified as being critical habitat under the Threatened Species Conservation Act 1995 or Part 7A of the Fisheries Management Act 1994 . cl 3.3: Am 2018 (106), Sch 2.22 [1]; 2019 (621), Sch 4.3[8].


# Principal development standards


## Minimum subdivision lot size [sec.4.1]


## Minimum subdivision lot size for community title schemes [sec.4.1AA]


## Rural subdivision [sec.4.2]


## Height of buildings [sec.4.3]

4.3 (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows— (a) to ensure acceptable height transitions between new development and heritage items and buildings in heritage conservation areas, (b) to ensure the sharing of views, (c) to ensure acceptable height transitions from the Green Square Town Centre to adjoining areas, (d) to ensure the amenity of the public domain by restricting taller buildings to only part of a site, (e) to ensure the built form contributes to the physical definition of the street network and public spaces. (2) The height of a building on any land is not to exceed the maximum height shown for the land on the Height of Buildings Map .


## Exceptions to height of buildings [sec.4.3A]

4.3A Despite clause 4.3, development consent may be granted to a building on land having a height exceeding the height shown for the land on the Height of Buildings Map by not more than 3 metres if the consent authority is satisfied that the additional building height— (a) is associated with at least one of the following— (i) electricity generating works, (ii) a public utility undertaking, (iii) a resource recovery facility, (iv) a waste or resource transfer station, and (b) will cause minimal overshadowing, and (c) does not include floor space area and is not reasonably capable of modification to include floor space area.


## Floor space ratio [sec.4.4]

4.4 (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows— (a) to provide sufficient floor space to meet the anticipated development needs for the foreseeable future, (b) to regulate the density of development, built form and land use intensity and to control the generation of vehicular and pedestrian traffic, (c) to provide for an intensity of development that is commensurate with the capacity of existing and planned infrastructure, (d) to ensure that new development reflects the desired character of the locality in which it is located and minimises adverse impacts on the amenity of that locality. (2) The maximum floor space ratio for a building on any land is not to exceed the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map .


## Calculation of floor space ratio and site area [sec.4.5]

4.5 (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows— (a) to define floor space ratio , (b) to set out rules for the calculation of the site area of development for the purpose of applying permitted floor space ratios, including rules to— (i) prevent the inclusion in the site area of an area that has no significant development being carried out on it, and (ii) prevent the inclusion in the site area of an area that has already been included as part of a site area to maximise floor space area in another building, and (iii) require community land and public places to be dealt with separately. (2) The floor space ratio of buildings on a site is the ratio of the gross floor area of all buildings within the site to the site area. (3) In determining the site area of proposed development for the purpose of applying a floor space ratio, the site area is taken to be— (a) if the proposed development is to be carried out on only one lot, the area of that lot, or (b) if the proposed development is to be carried out on 2 or more lots, the area of any lot on which the development is proposed to be carried out that has at least one common boundary with another lot on which the development is being carried out. In addition, subclauses (4)&#8211;(7) apply to the calculation of site area for the purposes of applying a floor space ratio to proposed development. (4) The following land must be excluded from the site area— (a) land on which the proposed development is prohibited, whether under this Plan or any other law, (b) community land or a public place (except as provided by subclause (7)). (5) The area of a lot that is wholly or partly on top of another or others in a strata subdivision is to be included in the calculation of the site area only to the extent that it does not overlap with another lot already included in the site area calculation. (6) The site area for proposed development must not include a lot additional to a lot or lots on which the development is being carried out unless the proposed development includes significant development on that additional lot. (7) For the purpose of applying a floor space ratio to any proposed development on, above or below community land or a public place, the site area must only include an area that is on, above or below that community land or public place, and is occupied or physically affected by the proposed development, and may not include any other area on which the proposed development is to be carried out. (8) The gross floor area of any existing or proposed buildings within the vertical projection (above or below ground) of the boundaries of a site is to be included in the calculation of the total floor space for the purposes of applying a floor space ratio, whether or not the proposed development relates to all of the buildings. (9) When development consent is granted to development on a site comprised of 2 or more lots, a condition of the consent may require a covenant to be registered that prevents the creation of floor area on a lot (the restricted lot) if the consent authority is satisfied that an equivalent quantity of floor area will be created on another lot only because the site included the restricted lot. (10) If— (a) a covenant of the kind referred to in subclause (9) applies to any land ( affected land ), and (b) proposed development relates to the affected land and other land that together comprise the site of the proposed development, the maximum amount of floor area allowed on the other land by the floor space ratio fixed for the site by this Plan is reduced by the quantity of floor space area the covenant prevents being created on the affected land. (11) In this clause, public place has the same meaning as it has in the Local Government Act 1993 .


## Exceptions to development standards [sec.4.6]

4.6 (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows— (a) to provide an appropriate degree of flexibility in applying certain development standards to particular development, (b) to achieve better outcomes for and from development by allowing flexibility in particular circumstances. (2) Development consent may, subject to this clause, be granted for development even though the development would contravene a development standard imposed by this or any other environmental planning instrument. However, this clause does not apply to a development standard that is expressly excluded from the operation of this clause. (3) Development consent must not be granted to development that contravenes a development standard unless the consent authority is satisfied the applicant for development consent has demonstrated that— (a) compliance with the development standard is unreasonable or unnecessary in the circumstances, and (b) there are sufficient environmental planning grounds to justify the contravention of the development standard. The Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2021 requires the development application to be accompanied by a document setting out the grounds on which the applicant seeks to demonstrate the matters in paragraphs (a) and (b). (4) The consent authority must keep a record of its assessment carried out under subclause (3). (5) (6) Development consent must not be granted under this clause for a subdivision of land in Zone RU1 Primary Production, Zone RU2 Rural Landscape, Zone RU3 Forestry, Zone RU4 Primary Production Small Lots, Zone RU6 Transition, Zone R5 Large Lot Residential, Zone E2 Environmental Conservation, Zone E3 Environmental Management or Zone E4 Environmental Living if— (a) the subdivision will result in 2 or more lots of less than the minimum area specified for such lots by a development standard, or (b) the subdivision will result in at least one lot that is less than 90% of the minimum area specified for such a lot by a development standard. When this Plan was made it did not include any of these zones. (7) (8) This clause does not allow development consent to be granted for development that would contravene any of the following— (a) a development standard for complying development, (b) a development standard that arises, under the regulations under the Act, in connection with a commitment set out in a BASIX certificate for a building to which State Environmental Planning Policy (Building Sustainability Index: BASIX) 2004 applies or for the land on which such a building is situated, (c) clause 5.4, (ca) clause 6.8. cl 4.6: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.3[7]; 2023 (524), Sch 1.1[1].


# Miscellaneous provisions


## Relevant acquisition authority [sec.5.1]

5.1 (1) The objective of this clause is to identify, for the purposes of section 3.15 of the Act, the authority of the State that will be the relevant authority to acquire land reserved for certain public purposes if the land is required to be acquired under Division 3 of Part 2 of the Land Acquisition (Just Terms Compensation) Act 1991 ( the owner-initiated acquisition provisions ). If the landholder will suffer hardship if there is any delay in the land being acquired by the relevant authority, section 23 of the Land Acquisition (Just Terms Compensation) Act 1991 requires the authority to acquire the land. (2) The authority of the State that will be the relevant authority to acquire land, if the land is required to be acquired under the owner-initiated acquisition provisions, is the authority of the State specified below in relation to the land shown on the Land Reservation Acquisition Map (or, if an authority of the State is not specified in relation to land required to be so acquired, the authority designated or determined under those provisions). Type of land shown on Map Authority of the State Zone RE1 Public Recreation and marked "Local open space" Council Zone RE1 Public Recreation and marked "Regional open space" The corporation constituted under section 2.5 of the Act Zone SP2 Infrastructure and marked "Classified road" Transport for NSW Zone C1 National Parks and Nature Reserves and marked "National Park" Minister administering the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974 None of these zones were included in this Plan when it was made. (3) Development on land acquired by an authority of the State under the owner-initiated acquisition provisions may, before it is used for the purpose for which it is reserved, be carried out, with development consent, for any purpose. cl 5.1: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.3[9] [10]; 2020 No 30, Sch 4.104[1]; 2024 (42), Sch 1.44[2].


## Classification and reclassification of public land [sec.5.2]

5.2 (1) The objective of this clause is to enable the Council to classify or reclassify public land as "operational land" or "community land" in accordance with Part 2 of Chapter 6 of the Local Government Act 1993 . Under the Local Government Act 1993 , "public land" is generally land vested in or under the control of a council (other than roads and certain Crown land). The classification or reclassification of public land may also be made by a resolution of the Council under section 31, 32 or 33 of the Local Government Act 1993 . Section 30 of that Act enables this Plan to discharge trusts on which public reserves are held if the land is reclassified under this Plan as operational land. (2) The public land described in Part 1 or Part 2 of Schedule 4 is classified, or reclassified, as operational land for the purposes of the Local Government Act 1993 . (3) The public land described in Part 3 of Schedule 4 is classified, or reclassified, as community land for the purposes of the Local Government Act 1993 . (4) The public land described in Part 1 of Schedule 4— (a) does not cease to be a public reserve to the extent (if any) that it is a public reserve, and (b) continues to be affected by any trusts, estates, interests, dedications, conditions, restrictions or covenants that affected the land before its classification, or reclassification, as operational land. (5) The public land described in Part 2 of Schedule 4, to the extent (if any) that it is a public reserve, ceases to be a public reserve when the description of the land is inserted into that Part and is discharged from all trusts, estates, interests, dedications, conditions, restrictions and covenants affecting the land or any part of the land, except— (a) those (if any) specified for the land in Column 3 of Part 2 of Schedule 4, and (b) any reservations that except land out of the Crown grant relating to the land, and (c) reservations of minerals (within the meaning of the Crown Land Management Act 2016 ). In accordance with section 30(2) of the Local Government Act 1993 , the approval of the Governor to subclause (5) applying to the public land concerned is required before the description of the land is inserted in Part 2 of Schedule 4. cl 5.2: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.3[11] [12].


## Development near zone boundaries [sec.5.3]


## Controls relating to miscellaneous permissible uses [sec.5.4]

5.4 (1) If development for the purposes of bed and breakfast accommodation is permitted under this Plan, the accommodation that is provided to guests must consist of no more than 3 bedrooms. Any such development that provides for a certain number of guests or rooms may involve a change in the class of building under the Building Code of Australia . (2) If development for the purposes of a home business is permitted under this Plan, the carrying on of the business must not involve the use of more than 45 square metres of floor area. (3) If development for the purposes of a home industry is permitted under this Plan, the carrying on of the home industry must not involve the use of more than 45 square metres of floor area. (4) If development for the purposes of an industrial retail outlet is permitted under this Plan, the retail floor area must not exceed— (a) 20% of the gross floor area of the industry or rural industry located on the same land as the retail outlet, or (b) 400 square metres, whichever is the lesser. (5) If development for the purposes of farm stay accommodation is permitted under this Plan, the accommodation that is provided to guests must consist of no more than 3 bedrooms. (6) If development for the purposes of a kiosk is permitted under this Plan, the gross floor area must not exceed 20 square metres. (7) If development for the purposes of a neighbourhood shop is permitted under this Plan, the retail floor area must not exceed 80 square metres. (7AA) If development for the purposes of a neighbourhood supermarket is permitted under this Plan, the gross floor area must not exceed 1,000 square metres. (8) If development for the purposes of a roadside stall is permitted under this Plan, the gross floor area must not exceed 8 square metres. (9) If development for the purposes of a secondary dwelling is permitted under this Plan, the total floor area of the dwelling (excluding any area used for parking) must not exceed whichever of the following is the greater— (a) 60 square metres, (b) 30% of the total floor area of the principal dwelling. (10) If development for the purposes of an artisan food and drink industry is permitted under this Plan in an industrial or rural zone, the floor area used for retail sales (not including any cafe or restaurant area) must not exceed— (a) 20% of the gross floor area of the industry, or (b) 400 square metres, whichever is the lesser. cl 5.4: Am 2018 (406), Sch 2.5 [1]; 2018 (488), Sch 1.5 [2].

5.5 cl 5.5: Rep 2018 (106), Sch 2.22 [2].


## Architectural roof features [sec.5.6]


## Development below mean high water mark [sec.5.7]


## Conversion of fire alarms [sec.5.8]

5.8 (1) This clause applies to a fire alarm system that can be monitored by Fire and Rescue NSW or by a private service provider. (2) The following development may be carried out, but only with development consent— (a) converting a fire alarm system from connection with the alarm monitoring system of Fire and Rescue NSW to connection with the alarm monitoring system of a private service provider, (b) converting a fire alarm system from connection with the alarm monitoring system of a private service provider to connection with the alarm monitoring system of another private service provider, (c) converting a fire alarm system from connection with the alarm monitoring system of a private service provider to connection with a different alarm monitoring system of the same private service provider. (3) Development to which subclause (2) applies is complying development if it consists only of— (a) internal alterations to a building, or (b) internal alterations to a building together with the mounting of an antenna, and any support structure, on an external wall or roof of a building so as to occupy a space of not more than 450mm &#215; 100mm &#215; 100mm. (4) A complying development certificate for any such complying development is subject to a condition that any building work may only be carried out between 7.00 and 6.00 pm on Monday to Friday and between 7.00 am and 5.00 pm on Saturday, and must not be carried out on a Sunday or a public holiday. (5) In this clause— private service provider means a person or body that has entered into an agreement that is in force with Fire and Rescue NSW to monitor fire alarm systems.

5.9, 5.9AA cll 5.9, 5.9AA: Rep 2020 (501), Sch 2.9.


## Heritage conservation [sec.5.10]

5.10 Heritage items (if any) are listed and described in Schedule 5. Heritage conservation areas (if any) are shown on the Heritage Map as well as being described in Schedule 5. (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows— (a) to conserve the environmental heritage of Green Square Town Centre, (b) to conserve the heritage significance of heritage items and heritage conservation areas, including associated fabric, settings and views, (c) to conserve archaeological sites, (d) to conserve Aboriginal objects and Aboriginal places of heritage significance. (2) Development consent is required for any of the following— (a) demolishing or moving any of the following or altering the exterior of any of the following (including, in the case of a building, making changes to its detail, fabric, finish or appearance)— (i) a heritage item, (ii) an Aboriginal object, (iii) a building, work, relic or tree within a heritage conservation area, (b) altering a heritage item that is a building by making structural changes to its interior or by making changes to anything inside the item that is specified in Schedule 5 in relation to the item, (c) disturbing or excavating an archaeological site while knowing, or having reasonable cause to suspect, that the disturbance or excavation will or is likely to result in a relic being discovered, exposed, moved, damaged or destroyed, (d) disturbing or excavating an Aboriginal place of heritage significance, (e) erecting a building on land— (i) on which a heritage item is located or that is within a heritage conservation area, or (ii) on which an Aboriginal object is located or that is within an Aboriginal place of heritage significance, (f) subdividing land— (i) on which a heritage item is located or that is within a heritage conservation area, or (ii) on which an Aboriginal object is located or that is within an Aboriginal place of heritage significance. (3) However, development consent under this clause is not required if— (a) the applicant has notified the consent authority of the proposed development and the consent authority has advised the applicant in writing before any work is carried out that it is satisfied that the proposed development— (i) is of a minor nature or is for the maintenance of the heritage item, Aboriginal object, Aboriginal place of heritage significance or archaeological site or a building, work, relic, tree or place within the heritage conservation area, and (ii) would not adversely affect the heritage significance of the heritage item, Aboriginal object, Aboriginal place, archaeological site or heritage conservation area, or (b) the development is in a cemetery or burial ground and the proposed development— (i) is the creation of a new grave or monument, or excavation or disturbance of land for the purpose of conserving or repairing monuments or grave markers, and (ii) would not cause disturbance to human remains, relics, Aboriginal objects in the form of grave goods, or to an Aboriginal place of heritage significance, or (c) the development is limited to the removal of a tree or other vegetation that the Council is satisfied is a risk to human life or property, or (d) the development is exempt development. (4) The consent authority must, before granting consent under this clause in respect of a heritage item or heritage conservation area, consider the effect of the proposed development on the heritage significance of the item or area concerned. This subclause applies regardless of whether a heritage management document is prepared under subclause (5) or a heritage conservation management plan is submitted under subclause (6). (5) The consent authority may, before granting consent to any development— (a) on land on which a heritage item is located, or (b) on land that is within a heritage conservation area, or (c) on land that is within the vicinity of land referred to in paragraph (a) or (b), require a heritage management document to be prepared that assesses the extent to which the carrying out of the proposed development would affect the heritage significance of the heritage item or heritage conservation area concerned. (6) The consent authority may require, after considering the heritage significance of a heritage item and the extent of change proposed to it, the submission of a heritage conservation management plan before granting consent under this clause. (7) The consent authority must, before granting consent under this clause to the carrying out of development on an archaeological site (other than land listed on the State Heritage Register or to which an interim heritage order under the Heritage Act 1977 applies)— (a) notify the Heritage Council of its intention to grant consent, and (b) take into consideration any response received from the Heritage Council within 28 days after the notice is sent. (8) The consent authority must, before granting consent under this clause to the carrying out of development in an Aboriginal place of heritage significance— (a) consider the effect of the proposed development on the heritage significance of the place and any Aboriginal object known or reasonably likely to be located at the place by means of an adequate investigation and assessment (which may involve consideration of a heritage impact statement), and (b) notify the local Aboriginal communities, in writing or in such other manner as may be appropriate, about the application and take into consideration any response received within 28 days after the notice is sent. (9) The consent authority must, before granting consent under this clause for the demolition of a nominated State heritage item— (a) notify the Heritage Council about the application, and (b) take into consideration any response received from the Heritage Council within 28 days after the notice is sent. (10) The consent authority may grant consent to development for any purpose of a building that is a heritage item or of the land on which such a building is erected, or for any purpose on an Aboriginal place of heritage significance, even though development for that purpose would otherwise not be allowed by this Plan, if the consent authority is satisfied that— (a) the conservation of the heritage item or Aboriginal place of heritage significance is facilitated by the granting of consent, and (b) the proposed development is in accordance with a heritage management document that has been approved by the consent authority, and (c) the consent to the proposed development would require that all necessary conservation work identified in the heritage management document is carried out, and (d) the proposed development would not adversely affect the heritage significance of the heritage item, including its setting, or the heritage significance of the Aboriginal place of heritage significance, and (e) the proposed development would not have any significant adverse effect on the amenity of the surrounding area.


## Bush fire hazard reduction [sec.5.11]

5.11 Bush fire hazard reduction work authorised by the Rural Fires Act 1997 may be carried out on any land without development consent. The Rural Fires Act 1997 also makes provision relating to the carrying out of development on bush fire prone land.


## Infrastructure development and use of existing buildings of the Crown [sec.5.12]

5.12 (1) This Plan does not restrict or prohibit, or enable the restriction or prohibition of, the carrying out of any development, by or on behalf of a public authority, that is permitted to be carried out with or without development consent, or that is exempt development, under State Environmental Planning Policy (Transport and Infrastructure) 2021 , Chapter 2. (2) This Plan does not restrict or prohibit, or enable the restriction or prohibition of, the use of existing buildings of the Crown by the Crown. cl 5.12: Am 2022 (72), Sch 1.59[2].


## Eco-tourist facilities [sec.5.13]


## Standards that cannot be used to refuse consent—playing and performing music [sec.5.14]

5.14 (1) The consent authority must not refuse consent to development in relation to licensed premises on the following grounds— (a) the playing or performance of music, including the following— (i) the genre of music played or performed, or (ii) whether the music played or performed is live or amplified, or (iii) whether the music played or performed is original music, or (iv) the number of musicians or live entertainment acts playing or performing, or (v) the type of instruments played, (b) whether dancing occurs, (c) the presence or use of a dance floor or another area ordinarily used for dancing, (d) the direction in which a stage for players or performers faces, (e) the decoration to be used, including, for example, mirror balls, or lighting used by players or performers. (2) The consent authority must not refuse consent to development in relation to licensed premises on the grounds of noise caused by the playing or performance of music, if the consent authority is satisfied the noise may be managed and minimised to an acceptable level. (3) In this clause— licensed premises has the same meaning as in the Liquor Act 2007 . cl 5.14: Ins 2020 (724), Sch 3.


## Flood planning [sec.5.15]

5.15 (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows— (a) to minimise the flood risk to life and property associated with the use of land, (b) to allow development on land that is compatible with the flood function and behaviour on the land, taking into account projected changes as a result of climate change, (c) to avoid adverse or cumulative impacts on flood behaviour and the environment, (d) to enable the safe occupation and efficient evacuation of people in the event of a flood. (2) Development consent must not be granted to development on land the consent authority considers to be within the flood planning area unless the consent authority is satisfied the development— (a) is compatible with the flood function and behaviour on the land, and (b) will not adversely affect flood behaviour in a way that results in detrimental increases in the potential flood affectation of other development or properties, and (c) will not adversely affect the safe occupation and efficient evacuation of people or exceed the capacity of existing evacuation routes for the surrounding area in the event of a flood, and (d) incorporates appropriate measures to manage risk to life in the event of a flood, and (e) will not adversely affect the environment or cause avoidable erosion, siltation, destruction of riparian vegetation or a reduction in the stability of river banks or watercourses. (3) In deciding whether to grant development consent on land to which this clause applies, the consent authority must consider the following matters— (a) the impact of the development on projected changes to flood behaviour as a result of climate change, (b) the intended design and scale of buildings resulting from the development, (c) whether the development incorporates measures to minimise the risk to life and ensure the safe evacuation of people in the event of a flood, (d) the potential to modify, relocate or remove buildings resulting from development if the surrounding area is impacted by flooding or coastal erosion. (4) A word or expression used in this clause has the same meaning as it has in the Considering Flooding in Land Use Planning Guideline unless it is otherwise defined in this clause. (5) In this clause— Considering Flooding in Land Use Planning Guideline means the Considering Flooding in Land Use Planning Guideline published on the Department's website on 14 July 2021. flood planning area has the same meaning as it has in the Flood Risk Management Manual. Flood Risk Management Manual means the Flood Risk Management Manual , ISBN 978-1-923076-17-4 , published by the NSW Government in June 2023. cl 5.15: Ins 2021 (412), Sch 3[2]. Am 2023 (609), Sch 2.26[1] [2].


## Public bushland [sec.5.16]

5.16 (1) The objective of this clause is to protect and ensure the ecological viability of bushland, including rehabilitated areas in urban areas, by— (a) preserving biodiversity, habitat corridors and links between public bushland and other nearby bushland, and (b) preserving bushland as a natural stabiliser of the soil surface, and (c) preserving existing hydrological landforms, processes and functions, including natural drainage lines, watercourses, wetlands and foreshores, and (d) preserving the recreational, educational, scientific, aesthetic, environmental, ecological and cultural values and potential of bushland, and (e) mitigating disturbance caused by development. (2) Development that will disturb, or is reasonably likely to disturb, public bushland is permitted with development consent. (3) Development consent must not be granted to development that will disturb, or is reasonably likely to disturb, public bushland unless the consent authority is satisfied of the following— (a) the disturbance of the bushland is essential for a purpose in the public interest, (b) there is no reasonable alternative to the disturbance, (c) the development minimises the amount of bushland to be disturbed, (d) the development includes measures to remediate the disturbed bushland. (4) Despite subclause (2), development that will disturb, or is reasonably likely to disturb, public bushland is permitted without development consent if the development is for the following purposes— (a) the construction, operation or maintenance of pipelines to carry water, sewerage or gas or pipelines licensed under the Pipelines Act 1967 , (b) the construction, operation or maintenance of electricity or telecommunication lines, (c) bush fire hazard reduction, (d) the construction or maintenance of classified roads, (e) facilitating the recreational use of the public bushland. (5) Development specified in subclause (4)(e) is permitted without development consent only if it is carried out in accordance with a plan of management for the public bushland, adopted by the Council in the same way a plan of management is required to be adopted for community land under the Local Government Act 1993 , Chapter 6, Part 2, Division 2, that includes measures for the following— (a) the recreational use of the land, (b) bush fire hazard reduction, (c) the prevention of degradation, including the alteration of drainage patterns, rubbish dumping, vehicle intrusion and infestation with weeds or non-native plants, (d) the remediation of degraded public bushland. (6) This clause does not require development consent for clearing of native vegetation if the clearing is of a kind that is authorised under the Local Land Services Act 2013 , section 60O. (7) In deciding whether to grant development consent to development on land adjoining public bushland, the consent authority must consider the following— (a) the need to retain public bushland adjoining the site of the development, (b) the likely effect of the development on public bushland, including the following— (i) the erosion of soil, (ii) the siltation of streams and waterways, (iii) the spread of weeds and non-native plants within public bushland, (c) other matters the consent authority considers relevant to the protection and preservation of public bushland. (8) This clause does not apply to the following land that is public bushland— (a) land in Zone RU1, RU2, RU3, RU4 or RU5, (b) land reserved, dedicated or acquired under the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974 , (c) land within a State forest, flora reserve or timber reserve within the meaning of the Forestry Act 2012 , (d) land to which State Environmental Planning Policy (Precincts—Western Parkland City) 2021 , Chapter 7 applies. (9) In this clause— disturb public bushland means— (a) remove vegetation from public bushland, or (b) cause a change in the natural ecology of public bushland that results in the destruction or degradation of the public bushland. non-native plant means a plant that is not native vegetation. public bushland means land— (a) on which there is vegetation that is— (i) a remainder of the natural vegetation of the land, or (ii) representative of the structure and floristics of the natural vegetation of the land, and (b) that is owned, managed or reserved for open space or environmental conservation by the Council or a public authority. cl 5.16: Ins 2022 (629), Sch 2[3].


## Canal estate development prohibited [sec.5.17]

5.17 (1) Canal estate development is prohibited on land to which this Plan applies. (2) In this clause— canal estate development has the same meaning as in the standard instrument prescribed by the Standard Instrument (Local Environmental Plans) Order 2006 . cl 5.17: Ins 2022 (629), Sch 2[4].


# Additional local provisions


## Acid sulfate soils [sec.6.1]

6.1 (1) The objective of this clause is to ensure that development does not disturb, expose or drain acid sulfate soils and cause environmental damage. (2) Development consent is required for the carrying out of works described in the Table to this subclause on land shown on the Acid Sulfate Soils Map as being of the class specified for those works. Class of land Works 1 Any works. 2 Works below the natural ground surface. Works by which the watertable is likely to be lowered. 3 Works more than 1 metre below the natural ground surface. Works by which the watertable is likely to be lowered more than 1 metre below the natural ground surface. 4 Works more than 2 metres below the natural ground surface. Works by which the watertable is likely to be lowered more than 2 metres below the natural ground surface. 5 Works within 500 metres of adjacent Class 1, 2, 3 or 4 land that is below 5 metres Australian Height Datum and by which the watertable is likely to be lowered below 1 metre Australian Height Datum on adjacent Class 1, 2, 3 or 4 land. (3) Development consent must not be granted under this clause for the carrying out of works unless an acid sulfate soils management plan has been prepared for the proposed works in accordance with the Acid Sulfate Soils Manual and has been provided to the consent authority. (4) Despite subclause (2), development consent is not required under this clause for the carrying out of works if— (a) a preliminary assessment of the proposed works prepared in accordance with the Acid Sulfate Soils Manual indicates that an acid sulfate soils management plan is not required for the works, and (b) the preliminary assessment has been provided to the consent authority and the consent authority has confirmed the assessment by notice in writing to the person proposing to carry out the works. (5) Despite subclause (2), development consent is not required under this clause for the carrying out of any of the following works by a public authority (including ancillary work such as excavation, construction of access ways or the supply of power)— (a) emergency work, being the repair or replacement of the works of the public authority, required to be carried out urgently because the works have been damaged, have ceased to function or pose a risk to the environment or to public health and safety, (b) routine maintenance work, being the periodic inspection, cleaning, repair or replacement of the works of the public authority (other than work that involves the disturbance of more than 1 tonne of soil), (c) minor work, being work that costs less than $20,000 (other than drainage work). (6) Despite subclause (2), development consent is not required under this clause to carry out any works if— (a) the works involve the disturbance of less than 1 tonne of soil, and (b) the works are not likely to lower the watertable.

6.2 cl 6.2: Rep 2021 (225), Sch 1.


## Airspace operations [sec.6.3]

6.3 (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows— (a) to provide for the effective and ongoing operation of the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport by ensuring that such operation is not compromised by proposed development that penetrates the Limitation or Operations Surface for that airport, (b) to protect the community from undue risk from that operation. (2) If a development application is received and the consent authority is satisfied that the proposed development will penetrate the Limitation or Operations Surface, the consent authority must not grant development consent unless it has consulted with the relevant Commonwealth body about the application. (3) The consent authority may grant development consent for the development if the relevant Commonwealth body advises that— (a) the development will penetrate the Limitation or Operations Surface but it has no objection to its construction, or (b) the development will not penetrate the Limitation or Operations Surface. (4) The consent authority must not grant development consent for the development if the relevant Commonwealth body advises that the development will penetrate the Limitation or Operations Surface and should not be constructed. (5) In this clause— Limitation or Operations Surface means the Obstacle Limitation Surface or the Procedures for Air Navigation Services Operations Surface as shown on the Obstacle Limitation Surface Map or the Procedures for Air Navigation Services Operations Surface Map for the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. relevant Commonwealth body means the body, under Commonwealth legislation, that is responsible for development approvals for development that penetrates the Limitation or Operations Surface for the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport.


## Development in areas subject to aircraft noise [sec.6.4]

6.4 (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows— (a) to prevent certain noise sensitive developments from being located near the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport and its flight paths, (b) to assist in minimising the impact of aircraft noise from that airport and its flight paths by requiring appropriate noise attenuation measures in noise sensitive buildings, (c) to ensure that land use and development in the vicinity of that airport do not hinder or have any other adverse impacts on the ongoing, safe and efficient operation of that airport. (2) This clause applies to development that— (a) is on land that— (i) is near the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, and (ii) is in an ANEF contour of 20 or greater, and (b) the consent authority considers is likely to be adversely affected by aircraft noise. (3) Before determining a development application for development to which this clause applies, the consent authority— (a) must consider whether the development will result in an increase in the number of dwellings or people affected by aircraft noise, and (b) must consider the location of the development in relation to the criteria set out in Table 2.1 (Building Site Acceptability Based on ANEF Zones) in AS 2021—2000 , and (c) must be satisfied the development will meet the indoor design sound levels shown in Table 3.3 (Indoor Design Sound Levels for Determination of Aircraft Noise Reduction) in AS 2021—2000 . (4) In this clause— ANEF contour means a noise exposure contour shown as an ANEF contour on the Noise Exposure Forecast Contour Map for the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport prepared by the Department of the Commonwealth responsible for airports. AS 2021—2000 means AS 2021—2000 , Acoustics—Aircraft noise intrusion—Building siting and construction .


## Affordable housing [sec.6.5]

6.5 (1) This clause applies to development that involves— (a) the erection of a new building the gross floor area of which is more than 200 square metres, or (b) alterations to an existing building that will result in the creation of more than 200 square metres of gross floor area that is intended to be used for the purpose of residential accommodation, or (c) alterations to an existing building that will result in the creation of more than 60 square metres of gross floor area that is intended to be used for a purpose other than residential accommodation, or (d) the demolition of existing floor area and the subsequent creation, whether for the same or a different purpose, of more than 200 square metres of gross floor area, or (e) a change of use of more than 60 square metres of existing floor area of a building. (2) The consent authority may, when granting development consent to development to which this clause applies, impose a condition requiring a contribution not exceeding the applicable affordable housing levy contribution , being— (a) 3% of the total floor area of the development that is intended to be used for residential purposes, and (b) 1% of the total floor area of the development that is not intended to be used for residential purposes. (3) A condition imposed under this clause must permit a person to satisfy the affordable housing levy contribution— (a) by way of a dedication in favour of the Council of land comprising one or more dwellings (each having a total floor area of not less than 35 square metres) with any remainder being paid as a monetary contribution to the Council, or (b) if the person so chooses, by way of a monetary contribution to the Council. (4) The rate at which a monetary contribution is to be taken to be equivalent to floor area for the purposes of this clause is to be calculated in accordance with the City of Sydney Affordable Housing Program adopted by the Council on 26 June 2023. The Program is made available by the Council on its website (www.cityofsydney.nsw.gov.au). (5) To avoid doubt— (a) it does not matter whether the floor area, to which a condition under this clause relates, was in existence before, or is created after, the commencement of this clause, or whether or not the floor area concerned replaces a previously existing area, and (b) the demolition of a building, or a change in the use of the land, does not give rise to a claim for a refund of any contribution. (6) In this clause— total floor area means the total of the areas of each floor of a building within the outer face of the external enclosing walls and including balconies, but excluding the following— (a) columns, fins, sun control devices, awnings and other elements, projections or works outside the general lines of the outer face of the external walls, (b) that part of a balcony that exceeds the minimum area required by the consent authority for the balcony, (c) ancillary car parking permitted by the consent authority and associated internal vehicular and pedestrian access to that car parking, (d) space for the loading and unloading of goods, (e) the floor area of a building, including balconies, that is— (i) on land in Zone IN1 General Industrial, or (ii) used to provide affordable housing or public housing, or (iii) used for the purpose of community facilities. cl 6.5: Am 2021 (208), Sch 2[1]&#8211;[4]; 2023 (627), Sch 1.3[1] [2].


## Active street frontages [sec.6.6]

6.6 (1) The objective of this clause is to promote uses that attract pedestrian traffic along certain ground floor street frontages in Zone MU1 Mixed Use. (2) This clause applies to land identified as "Active street frontage" on the Active Street Frontages Map . (3) Development consent must not be granted to the erection of a building, or a change of use of a building, on land to which this clause applies unless the consent authority is satisfied that the building will have an active street frontage after its erection or change of use. (4) Despite subclause (3), an active street frontage is not required for any part of a building that is used for any of the following— (a) entrances and lobbies (including as part of mixed use development), (b) access for fire services, (c) vehicular access. (5) In this clause, a building has an active street frontage if all premises on the ground floor of the building facing the street are used for the purposes of business premises or retail premises. cl 6.6: Am 2022 (828), Sch 1.21[3].


## Car parks [sec.6.7]

6.7 Development consent must not be granted to development for the purposes of a car park unless the consent authority is satisfied that— (a) the development will not encourage persons to travel in private vehicles between 7.00 am and 9.30 am or between 3.30 pm and 7.00 pm on weekdays, and (b) there will be restrictions on the hours of opening and the amount of time a vehicle may remain in the car park, and (c) the development will not have an adverse impact on road congestion, in particular the movement of public transport on roads, and (d) if located on land on which there is not an existing car park—the development will primarily serve nearby community facilities, entertainment facilities, information and education facilities, recreation facilities (major), recreation facilities (outdoor) or retail premises that will not be adequately serviced by public transport or existing public car parking.


## Car parking ancillary to other development [sec.6.8]

6.8 (1) The objectives of this clause are— (a) to identify the maximum number of car parking spaces that may be provided to service particular uses of land, and (b) to minimise the amount of vehicular traffic generated by development. (2) Development consent must not be granted to development that includes car parking spaces in connection with a use of land if the total number of car parking spaces (including existing car parking spaces) provided on the site would be greater than the maximum set out in this clause. (3) If the total number of car parking spaces under this clause is not a whole number, the total number is to be rounded down to the next whole number. (4) The maximum number of car parking spaces is as follows— (a) for multi dwelling housing, residential flat buildings and dual occupancies— (i) 0.5 spaces for each studio dwelling, and (ii) 0.5 spaces for each 1 bedroom dwelling, and (iii) 0.8 spaces for each 2 bedroom dwelling, and (iv) 1.2 spaces for each 3 or more bedroom dwelling, (b) for dwelling houses, attached dwellings and semi-detached dwellings—2 spaces for each dwelling, (c) for retail premises, if the building has not more than 1,000 square metres of gross floor area used for the purpose of retail premises—1 space for every 50 square metres of gross floor area used for that purpose, (d) for retail premises being a supermarket—the number of spaces determined by survey-based assessment, (e) for business premises or office premises—1 space for every 125 square metres of gross floor area used for that purpose, (f) for health consulting rooms or medical centres—2 spaces for each consulting room, (g) for places of public worship or entertainment facilities—the greater of— (i) 1 space for every 30 square metres of gross floor area used for that purpose, or (ii) 1 space for every 10 fixed seats in the place of public worship or entertainment facility, (h) for centre-based child care facilities—1 space, plus an additional space for every 100 square metres used for that purpose, (i) for information and education facilities—1 space for every 200 square metres of gross floor area used for that purpose, (j) for warehouse or distribution centres—1 space for every 300 square metres of gross floor area used for that purpose, (k) for industries—1 space for every 100 square metres of gross floor area used for that purpose, (l) for serviced apartments or hotel or motel accommodation— (i) if less than 101 bedrooms are used for that purpose—1 space for every 4 bedrooms, and (ii) if 101 or more bedrooms are used for that purpose—1 space for every 5 bedrooms. (5) For multi dwelling housing, residential flat buildings and dual occupancies, the following number of visitor car parking spaces, in addition to the maximum number of car parking spaces under subclause (4), may be provided— (a) if the building contains less than 31 dwellings—1 space for every 5 dwellings, (b) if the building contains more than 30 dwellings, but less than 71 dwellings—6 spaces plus an additional 1 space for every 8 dwellings in excess of 30 dwellings, (c) if the building contains more than 70 dwellings—11 spaces plus an additional space for every 15 dwellings in excess of 70 dwellings. (6) In this clause— car parking space means a space intended to be used for the parking of motor vehicles that is ancillary to another land use on the site, but does not include any of the following— (a) a place primarily used for the purpose of washing vehicles, (b) a place primarily used for the purpose of loading or unloading goods, (c) a place primarily used for the purpose of storing bicycles. visitor car parking space means a car parking space intended to be used for the purposes of providing parking for visitors to the buildings to which those parking spaces relate and not for the purposes of providing parking for the residents of the buildings. cl 6.8: Am 2017 (493), Sch 1.2 [2].


## Design excellence [sec.6.9]

6.9 (1) The objective of this clause is to deliver the highest standard of architectural and urban landscape design. (2) This clause applies to development involving the erection of a new building or external alterations to an existing building. (3) Development consent must not be granted to development to which this clause applies unless the consent authority is satisfied that the proposed development exhibits design excellence. (4) In considering whether development to which this clause applies exhibits design excellence, the consent authority must have regard to the following— (a) whether a high standard of architectural design, materials and detailing appropriate to the building type and location will be achieved, (b) whether the form and external appearance of the proposed development will improve the quality and amenity of the public domain, (c) whether the proposed development detrimentally impacts on view corridors, (d) how the proposed development addresses the following matters— (i) the suitability of the land for development, (ii) existing and proposed uses and use mix, (iii) heritage issues and streetscape constraints, (iv) the location of any tower proposed, having regard to the need to achieve an acceptable relationship with the other towers (existing or proposed) on the same site or on neighbouring sites in terms of separation, setbacks, amenity and urban form, (v) bulk, massing and modulation of buildings, (vi) street frontage heights, (vii) environmental impacts such as sustainable design, overshadowing, visual and acoustic privacy, wind and reflectivity, (viii) the achievement of the principles of ecologically sustainable development, (ix) pedestrian, cycle, vehicular and service access and circulation requirements including the permeability of any pedestrian network, (x) impact on, and any proposed improvements to, the public domain, (xi) impact on any special character area, (xii) appropriate ground level public domain interfaces, (xiii) excellence and integration of landscape design. (5) Development consent must not be granted to the following development to which this clause applies unless a competitive design process has been employed in relation to the proposed development— (a) development in respect of a building that has, or will have, a building height greater than RL 75, (b) development having an estimated development cost of more than $100,000,000, (c) development for which the applicant has chosen to have such a competition. (6) A competitive design process is not required if the consent authority is satisfied that such a process would be unreasonable or unnecessary in the circumstances or that the development— (a) involves only alterations or additions to an existing building, and (b) does not significantly increase the height or gross floor area of the building, and (c) does not have significant adverse impacts on adjoining buildings or the public domain, and (d) does not significantly alter any aspect of the building when viewed from public places. (7) If the design of a new building, or an external alteration to an existing building, on land is the winner of a competitive design process and the consent authority is satisfied that the building or alteration exhibits design excellence, it may grant development consent to the erection of the new building, or the alteration to the existing building, with a floor space ratio that exceeds the maximum floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map by up to 10%. (8) In this clause— competitive design process means an architectural design competition, or the preparation of design alternatives on a competitive basis, carried out in accordance with the City of Sydney Competitive Design Policy. estimated development cost has the same meaning as in the Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2021 . cl 6.9: Am 2023 (523), Sch 1.15[1] [2].


## Essential services [sec.6.10]

6.10 Development consent must not be granted to development unless the consent authority is satisfied that any of the following services that are essential for the development are available or that adequate arrangements have been made to make them available when required— (a) the supply of water, (b) the supply of electricity, (c) the disposal and management of sewage, (d) stormwater drainage or on-site conservation, (e) suitable road access.


## Location of sex services premises [sec.6.11]

6.11 (1) The objective of this clause is to minimise land use conflicts and adverse amenity impacts relating to sex services premises. (2) In deciding whether to grant development consent to development for the purposes of sex services premises, the consent authority must consider whether the operation of the sex services premises is likely to cause a disturbance in the neighbourhood— (a) because of its size, location, hours of operation or number of employees, or (b) taking into account the cumulative impact of the sex services premises along with other sex services premises operating in the neighbourhood during similar hours. (3) Development consent must not be granted to development for the purposes of sex services premises that are proposed to be located in a building containing one or more dwellings, unless the sex services premises can only be accessed by a separate street entrance that does not provide access to the rest of the building.


## Serviced apartments [sec.6.12]

6.12 (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows— (a) to ensure that development for the purpose of serviced apartments provides the same level of amenity as that provided by development for the purpose of residential flat buildings, (b) to prevent substandard residential accommodation occurring through the conversion of serviced apartments to residential flat buildings. (2) Development consent for development for the purpose of serviced apartments or a change of use of a building from serviced apartments to a residential flat building must not be granted unless the consent authority has considered the following in relation to the development— (a) the design principles for residential apartment development within the meaning of State Environmental Planning Policy (Housing) 2021 , (b) the Apartment Design Guide within the meaning of that policy. cl 6.12: Ins 2019 (661), Sch 1.4[2]. Am 2023 (664), Sch 3.18.


## Sustainability requirements for certain large commercial development [sec.6.13]

6.13 (1) This clause applies to the following development— (a) large commercial development, other than to the extent to which the development relates to prescribed serviced apartments, (b) the erection of a new prescribed shopping centre, (c) alterations, enlargement or extension of an existing prescribed shopping centre, if the development will increase the gross lettable area of shops and food and drink premises in the prescribed shopping centre by at least 50%. (2) In deciding whether to grant development consent, the consent authority must consider whether the development— (a) is designed to optimise energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy generated on-site, and (b) for a development application made on or after 1 January 2026—will also achieve net zero emissions from energy used on-site, including by using renewable energy generated on-site and off-site. (3) This clause applies to a development application made on or after 1 October 2023. (4) In this clause— large commercial development has the same meaning as in State Environmental Planning Policy (Sustainable Buildings) 2022 . prescribed serviced apartments has the same meaning as in State Environmental Planning Policy (Sustainable Buildings) 2022 . prescribed shopping centre means a building consisting of at least 2 shops or food and drink premises if— (a) the total gross lettable area of shops and food and drink premises is at least 5,000m 2 , and (b) the shops and food and drink premises have shared plant and services. cl 6.13: Ins 2023 (421), Sch 4. Schedule 1 (Clause 2.5) (When this Plan was made this Schedule was blank) Schedule 2 (Clause 3.1) State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008 specifies exempt development under that Policy. The Policy has State-wide application. This Schedule contains additional exempt development not specified in that Policy. Exempt development may be carried out without the need for development consent under the Act. Such development is not exempt from any approval, licence, permit or authority that is required under any other Act and adjoining owners' property rights and the common law still apply.


## Home occupations (sex services) [sch.2-sec]

Must be carried out in a lawful dwelling or in a building ancillary to a lawful dwelling.


## Street art [sch.2-sec-oc.2]

(1) Must not project more than 30mm from a wall or other surface. (2) Must not constitute signage. Signage includes advertisements and advertising structures. (3) Must not be located on a heritage item or within a heritage conservation area. (4) Must not contain material that— (a) discriminates against or vilifies any person or group, or (b) is offensive or sexually explicit. (5) In this clause, street art means art that is painted, marked or otherwise affixed to the outside of a building and that is visible from a public place (within the meaning of the Local Government Act 1993 ). Street art may only be carried out subject to requirements to obtain the approval of the owner of the building on which the street art is located or any statutory authorities (such as Transport for NSW). See also Part 2 of the Graffiti Control Act 2008 for graffiti related offences.


## Temporary sign or banner [sch.2-sec-oc.3]

(1) Must not be displayed for more than 40 days in any calendar year. (2) Must be no more than 3m by 4m. (3) Must not display offensive material. (4) Must not be on, or attached to, an "A" frame structure. (5) Must not be located on an awning. (6) Must not project from a wall. (7) Must be for the purposes of a community event within the meaning of State Environmental Planning Policy (Temporary Structures) 2007 .


## Temporary use of council land [sch.2-sec-oc.4]

If on community land, the use may need to be approved under Division 2 of Part 2 of Chapter 6 of the Local Government Act 1993 . (1) Must be on land owned by, or under the care or control of, the Council. (2) Must not be for more than 52 days (whether or not consecutive) in any 12 month period.


## Use of footpath by food and drink premises [sch.2-sec-oc.5]

If on a footpath, the use must be approved under section 125 of the Roads Act 1993 . If on community land, the use may need to be approved under Division 2 of Part 2 of Chapter 6 of the Local Government Act 1993 . (1) Must be on public land or a public road within the meaning of the Local Government Act 1993 or on land to which the Crown Lands Act 1989 applies. (2) Must be associated with lawful food and drink premises. (3) Must not be associated with a pub. (4) Must not provide seating for more than 20 persons. (5) Must not be used before 7.00 am or after 10.00 pm. sch 2: Am 2017 (751), Sch 1.4; 2020 No 30, Sch 4.104[2]. Schedule 3 (Clause 3.2) State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008 specifies complying development and the complying development conditions for that development under that Policy. The Policy has State-wide application. This Schedule contains additional complying development not specified in that Policy.


# Types of development


# Complying development certificate conditions


## General conditions [sch.3-sec]

Any development specified in Part 1 is subject to the same conditions set out in Schedule 6 to State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008 . sch 3: Am 2017 (269), Sch 5. Schedule 4 (Clause 5.2)


# Land classified, or reclassified, as operational land—no interests changed


# Land classified, or reclassified, as operational land—interests changed


# Land classified, or reclassified, as community land
