
# Preliminary


## Name of Plan [sec.1.1]

1.1 This Plan is Sydney Local Environmental Plan (Glebe Affordable Housing Project) 2011 .


## Commencement [sec.1.1AA]

1.1AA This Plan commences on the day on which it is published on the NSW legislation website.


## Aims of Plan [sec.1.2]

1.2 (1) This Plan aims to make local environmental planning provisions for certain land in Glebe generally in accordance with the relevant standard environmental planning instrument under section 3.20 of the Act. (2) The particular aims of this Plan are as follows— (aa) to protect and promote the use and development of land for arts and cultural activity, including music and other performance arts, (a) to facilitate the development of affordable housing and social housing on the subject land, (b) to encourage the growth and diversity of the residential population of the City of Sydney by providing for a range of appropriately located housing, including affordable housing and social housing, (c) to promote ecologically sustainable development, (d) to ensure that the pattern of land use and density reflects the existing and future capacity of the transport network and facilitates walking, cycling and the use of public transport, (e) to achieve a high quality urban form by ensuring that new development exhibits design excellence and reflects the existing or desired future character of the locality, (f) to ensure that development does not have an adverse impact on surrounding heritage. cl 1.2: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.1[1]; 2020 (724), Sch 2[1].


## Land to which Plan applies [sec.1.3]

1.3 This Plan applies to the land identified on the Land Application Map .


## Definitions [sec.1.4]

1.4 The Dictionary at the end of this Plan defines words and expressions for the purposes of this Plan.


## Notes [sec.1.5]

1.5 Notes in this Plan are provided for guidance and do not form part of this Plan.


## Consent authority [sec.1.6]

1.6 The consent authority for the purposes of this Plan is (subject to the Act) the Council. The City of Sydney Act 1988 constitutes the Central Sydney Planning Committee which has and may exercise the functions of the Council under Parts 4, 5, 6 and 8 of the Act in relation to the carrying out of major development, to the exclusion of the Council.


## Maps [sec.1.7]

1.7 (1) A reference in this Plan to a named map adopted by this Plan is a reference to a map by that name— (a) approved by the local plan-making authority when the map is adopted, and (b) as amended or replaced from time to time by maps declared by environmental planning instruments to amend or replace that map, and approved by the local plan-making authority when the instruments are made. (2) Any 2 or more named maps may be combined into a single map. In that case, a reference in this Plan to any such named map is a reference to the relevant part or aspect of the single map. (3) Any such maps are to be kept and made available for public access in accordance with arrangements approved by the Minister. (4) For the purposes of this Plan, a map may be in, and may be kept and made available in, electronic or paper form, or both. The maps adopted by this Plan are to be made available on the official NSW legislation website in connection with this Plan. Requirements relating to the maps are set out in the documents entitled Standard technical requirements for LEP maps and Standard requirements for LEP GIS data which are available on the Department of Planning's website. cl 1.7: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.1[2].


## Repeal of planning instruments applying to land [sec.1.8]

1.8 (1) All local environmental plans and deemed environmental planning instruments applying only to the land to which this Plan applies are repealed. (2) All local environmental plans and deemed environmental planning instruments applying to the land to which this Plan applies and to other land cease to apply to the land to which this Plan applies. The Leichhardt Local Environmental Plan 2000 ceases to apply to land to which this Plan applies as a consequence of this Plan.


## Savings provisions relating to development applications [sec.1.8A]

1.8A (1) If a development application has been made before the commencement of this Plan in relation to land to which this Plan applies and the application has not been finally determined before that commencement, the application must be determined as if this Plan had not commenced. However, under Division 3.5 of the Act, a development application may be made for consent to carry out development that may only be carried out if the environmental planning instrument applying to the relevant development is appropriately amended or if a new instrument, including an appropriate principal environmental planning instrument, is made, and the consent authority may consider the application. The Division requires public notice of the development application and the draft environmental planning instrument allowing the development at the same time, or as closely together as is practicable. (2) The amendments made to this Plan by State Environmental Planning Policy Amendment (Artisan Food and Drink Industries) 2018 and State Environmental Planning Policy Amendment (Land Use Terms) 2018 do not apply to a development application made but not determined before the commencement of those amendments. (3) The amendments made to this plan by State Environmental Planning Policy Amendment (Flood Planning) 2021 do not apply to a development application made but not finally determined before 14 July 2021. (4) The amendments made to this plan by Sydney Local Environmental Plan Amendment (Flood Planning) 2021 extend to a development application made on or after 14 July 2021. (5) A development application made, but not finally determined, before the commencement of State Environmental Planning Policy Amendment (Exceptions to Development Standards) 2023 must be determined as if that policy had not commenced. (6) A development application made, but not finally determined, before the commencement of State Environmental Planning Policy Amendment (Flood Planning) 2023 must be determined as if that policy had not commenced. cl 1.8A: Am 2018 (488), Sch 1.3 [1]; 2019 (621), Sch 5[1]; 2021 (412), Sch 1[1] [2]; 2023 (524), Sch 1.1[2]; 2023 (609), Sch 2.1.


## Application of SEPPs [sec.1.9]

1.9 (1) This Plan is subject to the provisions of any State environmental planning policy that prevails over this Plan as provided by section 3.28 of the Act. (2) The following State environmental planning policies (or provisions) do not apply to the land to which this Plan applies— State Environmental Planning Policy No 1—Development Standards State Environmental Planning Policy No 4—Development Without Consent and Miscellaneous Exempt and Complying Development (clause 6 and Parts 3 and 4) State Environmental Planning Policy No 60—Exempt and Complying Development Additional instruments (or provisions of instruments) may be added if the relevant instrument or provision is covered by this Plan. cl 1.9: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.1[3].


# Permitted or prohibited development


## Land use zones [sec.2.1]

2.1 The land use zones under this Plan are as follows— R1 General Residential


## Zoning of land to which Plan applies [sec.2.2]

2.2 For the purposes of this Plan, land is within the zones shown on the Land Zoning Map .


## Zone objectives and Land Use Table [sec.2.3]

2.3 (1) The Land Use Table at the end of this Part specifies for each zone— (a) the objectives for development, and (b) development that may be carried out without development consent, and (c) development that may be carried out only with development consent, and (d) development that is prohibited. (2) The consent authority must have regard to the objectives for development in a zone when determining a development application in respect of land within the zone. (3) In the Land Use Table at the end of this Part— (a) a reference to a type of building or other thing is a reference to development for the purposes of that type of building or other thing, and (b) a reference to a type of building or other thing does not include (despite any definition in this Plan) a reference to a type of building or other thing referred to separately in the Land Use Table in relation to the same zone. (4) This clause is subject to the other provisions of this Plan. 1 Schedule 1 sets out additional permitted uses for particular land. 2 Schedule 2 sets out exempt development (which is generally exempt from both Parts 4 and 5 of the Act). Development in the land use table that may be carried out without consent is nevertheless subject to the environmental assessment and approval requirements of Part 5 of the Act. 3 Schedule 3 sets out complying development (for which a complying development certificate may be issued as an alternative to obtaining development consent). 4 Clause 2.6 requires consent for subdivision of land. 5 Part 5 contains other provisions which require consent for particular development. cl 2.3: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.1[4].


## Unzoned land [sec.2.4]

2.4 (1) Development may be carried out on unzoned land only with development consent. (2) Before granting development consent, the consent authority— (a) must consider whether the development will impact on adjoining zoned land and, if so, consider the objectives for development in the zones of the adjoining land, and (b) must be satisfied that the development is appropriate and is compatible with permissible land uses in any such adjoining land.


## Additional permitted uses for particular land [sec.2.5]

2.5 (1) Development on particular land that is described or referred to in Schedule 1 may be carried out— (a) with development consent, or (b) if the Schedule so provides—without development consent, in accordance with the conditions (if any) specified in that Schedule in relation to that development. (2) This clause has effect despite anything to the contrary in the Land Use Table or other provision of this Plan.


## Subdivision—consent requirements [sec.2.6]

2.6 (1) Land to which this Plan applies may be subdivided, but only with development consent. If a subdivision is identified as exempt development in an applicable environmental planning instrument, such as this Plan or State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008 , the Act enables it to be carried out without development consent. (2) Development consent must not be granted for the subdivision of land on which a secondary dwelling is situated if the subdivision would result in the principal dwelling and the secondary dwelling being situated on separate lots, unless the resulting lots are not less than the minimum size shown on the Lot Size Map in relation to that land. The definition of secondary dwelling in the Dictionary requires the dwelling to be on the same lot of land as the principal dwelling.


## Demolition requires development consent [sec.2.7]

2.7 The demolition of a building or work may be carried out only with development consent. If the demolition of a building or work is identified in an applicable environmental planning instrument, such as this Plan or State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008 , as exempt development, the Act enables it to be carried out without development consent.


## Temporary use of land [sec.2.8]

2.8 (1) The objective of this clause is to provide for the temporary use of land if the use does not compromise future development of the land, or have detrimental economic, social, amenity or environmental effects on the land. (2) Despite any other provision of this Plan, development consent may be granted for development on land in any zone for a temporary use for a maximum period of 52 days (whether or not consecutive days) in any period of 12 months. (3) Development consent must not be granted unless the consent authority is satisfied that— (a) the temporary use will not prejudice the subsequent carrying out of development on the land in accordance with this Plan and any other applicable environmental planning instrument, and (b) the temporary use will not adversely impact on any adjoining land or the amenity of the neighbourhood, and (c) the temporary use and location of any structures related to the use will not adversely impact on environmental attributes or features of the land, or increase the risk of natural hazards that may affect the land, and (d) at the end of the temporary use period the land will, as far as is practicable, be restored to the condition in which it was before the commencement of the use. (4) Despite subclause (2), the temporary use of a dwelling as a sales office for a new release area or a new housing estate may exceed the maximum number of days specified in that subclause. (5) Subclause (3)(d) does not apply to the temporary use of a dwelling as a sales office mentioned in subclause (4).


# Land Use Table


## Objectives of zone [sec.1]

1 &#8226; To provide for the housing needs of the community. &#8226; To provide for a variety of housing types and densities. &#8226; To enable other land uses that provide facilities or services to meet the day to day needs of residents.


## Permitted without consent [sec.2]

2 Home occupations; Horticulture


## Permitted with consent [sec.3]

3 Attached dwellings; Bed and breakfast accommodation; Boarding houses; Centre-based child care facilities; Community facilities; Dwelling houses; Food and drink premises; Group homes; Home-based child care; Home industries; Home occupations (sex services); Hostels; Jetties; Markets; Multi dwelling housing; Neighbourhood shops; Places of public worship; Residential flat buildings; Respite day care centres; Roads; Roadside stalls; Semi-detached dwellings; Seniors housing; Shops; Shop top housing; Any other development not specified in item 2 or 4


## Prohibited [sec.4]

4 Agriculture; Air transport facilities; Airstrips; Amusement centres; Animal boarding or training establishments; Boat building and repair facilities; Boat launching ramps; Camping grounds; Car parks; Caravan parks; Charter and tourism boating facilities; Commercial premises; Crematoria; Depots; Eco-tourist facilities; Entertainment facilities; Environmental protection works; Exhibition villages; Extractive industries; Farm buildings; Forestry; Freight transport facilities; Function centres; Heavy industrial storage establishments; Helipads; Highway service centres; Industrial retail outlets; Industrial training facilities; Industries; Mooring pens; Moorings; Mortuaries; Open cut mining; Passenger transport facilities; Port facilities; Recreation facilities (major); Recreation facilities (outdoor); Registered clubs; Research stations; Restricted premises; Rural industries; Rural supplies; Service stations; Sewerage systems; Sex service premises; Storage premises; Tourist and visitor accommodation; Transport depots; Truck depots; Vehicle body repair workshops; Vehicle repair stations; Veterinary hospitals; Warehouse or distribution centres; Waste or resource management facilities; Water recreation structures; Water supply systems; Wharf or boating facilities; Wholesale supplies


# Exempt and complying development


## Exempt development [sec.3.1]

3.1 (1) The objective of this clause is to identify development of minimal environmental impact as exempt development. (2) Development specified in Schedule 2 that meets the standards for the development contained in that Schedule and that complies with the requirements of this Part is exempt development. (3) To be exempt development, the development— (a) must meet the relevant deemed-to-satisfy provisions of the Building Code of Australia or, if there are no such relevant provisions, must be structurally adequate, and (b) must not, if it relates to an existing building, cause the building to contravene the Building Code of Australia , and (c) must not be designated development, and (d) must not be carried out on land that comprises, or on which there is, an item that is listed on the State Heritage Register under the Heritage Act 1977 or that is subject to an interim heritage order under the Heritage Act 1977 . (4) Development that relates to an existing building that is classified under the Building Code of Australia as class 1b or class 2&#8211;9 is exempt development only if— (a) the building has a current fire safety certificate or fire safety statement, or (b) no fire safety measures are currently implemented, required or proposed for the building. (5) To be exempt development, the development must— (a) be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications, if applicable, and (b) not involve the removal or pruning of a tree or other vegetation that requires a permit or development consent for removal or pruning, unless that removal or pruning is undertaken in accordance with a permit or development consent. A permit for the removal or pruning of a tree or other vegetation may be granted under this Plan. A development consent for the removal of native vegetation may be granted where relevant under the Native Vegetation Act 2003 . (6) A heading to an item in Schedule 2 is part of that Schedule. cl 3.1: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.1[5].


## Complying development [sec.3.2]

3.2 Under section 4.2 of the Act, development consent for the carrying out of complying development may be obtained by the issue of a complying development certificate. The section states that development cannot be complying development if— (a) it is on land that is critical habitat of an endangered species, population or ecological community (identified under the Threatened Species Conservation Act 1995 or the Fisheries Management Act 1994 ), or (b) it is on land within a wilderness area (identified under the Wilderness Act 1987 ), or (c) the development is designated development, or (d) the development is on land that comprises, or on which there is, an item of environmental heritage (that is listed on the State Heritage Register or in Schedule 5 to this Plan or that is subject to an interim heritage order under the Heritage Act 1977 ), or (e) the development requires concurrence (except a concurrence of the Planning Secretary in respect of development that is likely to significantly affect a threatened species, population, or ecological community, or its habitat (identified under the Threatened Species Conservation Act 1995 )), or (f) the development is on land identified as an environmentally sensitive area. (1) The objective of this clause is to identify development as complying development. (2) Development specified in Part 1 of Schedule 3 that is carried out in compliance with— (a) the development standards specified in relation to that development, and (b) the requirements of this Part, is complying development. See also clause 5.8(3) which provides that the conversion of fire alarms is complying development in certain circumstances. (3) To be complying development, the development must— (a) be permissible, with development consent, in the zone in which it is carried out, and (b) meet the relevant deemed-to-satisfy provisions of the Building Code of Australia , and (c) have an approval, if required by the Local Government Act 1993 , from the Council for an on-site effluent disposal system if the development is undertaken on unsewered land. (4) A complying development certificate for development specified in Part 1 of Schedule 3 is subject to the conditions (if any) set out or referred to in Part 2 of that Schedule. (5) A heading to an item in Schedule 3 is part of that Schedule. cl 3.2: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.1[6].


## Environmentally sensitive areas excluded [sec.3.3]

3.3 (1) Exempt or complying development must not be carried out on any environmentally sensitive area for exempt or complying development. (2) For the purposes of this clause— environmentally sensitive area for exempt or complying development means any of the following— (a) the coastal waters of the State, (b) a coastal lake, (c) land within the coastal wetlands and littoral rainforests area (within the meaning of the Coastal Management Act 2016 ), (d) land reserved as an aquatic reserve under the Fisheries Management Act 1994 or as a marine park under the Marine Parks Act 1997 , (e) land within a wetland of international significance declared under the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands or within a World heritage area declared under the World Heritage Convention, (f) land within 100 metres of land to which paragraph (c), (d) or (e) applies, (g) land identified in this or any other environmental planning instrument as being of high Aboriginal cultural significance or high biodiversity significance, (h) land reserved under the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974 or land acquired under Part 11 of that Act, (i) land reserved or dedicated under the Crown Land Management Act 2016 for the preservation of flora, fauna, geological formations or for other environmental protection purposes, (j) land identified as being critical habitat under the Threatened Species Conservation Act 1995 or Part 7A of the Fisheries Management Act 1994 . cl 3.3: Am 2018 (106), Sch 2.20 [1]; 2019 (621), Sch 4.1[8].


# Principal development standards


## Minimum subdivision lot size [sec.4.1]


## Minimum subdivision lot size for community title schemes [sec.4.1AA]


## Rural subdivision [sec.4.2]


## Height of buildings [sec.4.3]

4.3 (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows— (a) to ensure the height of development is appropriate to the condition of the site and its context, (b) to ensure appropriate height transitions between new development and heritage items or heritage conservation areas, (c) to promote the sharing of views, (d) to promote sunlight access. (2) The height of a building on any land is not to exceed the maximum height shown for the land on the Height of Buildings Map .


## Floor space ratio [sec.4.4]

4.4 (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows— (a) to provide sufficient floor space to meet the anticipated development needs for the foreseeable future, (b) to regulate the density of development, built form, land use intensity and to control the generation of vehicle and pedestrian traffic, (c) to ensure that new development reflects the desired character of the locality in which it is located and minimises adverse impacts on the amenity of that locality, (d) to ensure ongoing diversity in housing options through an incentive for developments to incorporate social housing premises. (2) The maximum floor space ratio for a building on any land is not to exceed the floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map . (2A) Despite subclause (2), the floor space ratio for a building may exceed the maximum floor space ratio shown for the land on the Floor Space Ratio Map by up to 0.6:1 if the total floor area of the building that is used as social housing premises is equal to or greater than 110% of the site area. (2B) In this clause, social housing premises has the same meaning as in the Residential Tenancies Act 2010 .


## Calculation of floor space ratio and site area [sec.4.5]

4.5 (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows— (a) to define floor space ratio , (b) to set out rules for the calculation of the site area of development for the purpose of applying permitted floor space ratios, including rules to— (i) prevent the inclusion in the site area of an area that has no significant development being carried out on it, and (ii) prevent the inclusion in the site area of an area that has already been included as part of a site area to maximise floor space area in another building, and (iii) require community land and public places to be dealt with separately. (2) The floor space ratio of buildings on a site is the ratio of the gross floor area of all buildings within the site to the site area. (3) In determining the site area of proposed development for the purpose of applying a floor space ratio, the site area is taken to be— (a) if the proposed development is to be carried out on only one lot, the area of that lot, or (b) if the proposed development is to be carried out on 2 or more lots, the area of any lot on which the development is proposed to be carried out that has at least one common boundary with another lot on which the development is being carried out. In addition, subclauses (4)&#8211;(7) apply to the calculation of site area for the purposes of applying a floor space ratio to proposed development. (4) The following land must be excluded from the site area— (a) land on which the proposed development is prohibited, whether under this Plan or any other law, (b) community land or a public place (except as provided by subclause (7)). (5) The area of a lot that is wholly or partly on top of another or others in a strata subdivision is to be included in the calculation of the site area only to the extent that it does not overlap with another lot already included in the site area calculation. (6) The site area for proposed development must not include a lot additional to a lot or lots on which the development is being carried out unless the proposed development includes significant development on that additional lot. (7) For the purpose of applying a floor space ratio to any proposed development on, above or below community land or a public place, the site area must only include an area that is on, above or below that community land or public place, and is occupied or physically affected by the proposed development, and may not include any other area on which the proposed development is to be carried out. (8) The gross floor area of any existing or proposed buildings within the vertical projection (above or below ground) of the boundaries of a site is to be included in the calculation of the total floor space for the purposes of applying a floor space ratio, whether or not the proposed development relates to all of the buildings. (9) When development consent is granted to development on a site comprised of 2 or more lots, a condition of the consent may require a covenant to be registered that prevents the creation of floor area on a lot (the restricted lot) if the consent authority is satisfied that an equivalent quantity of floor area will be created on another lot only because the site included the restricted lot. (10) If— (a) a covenant of the kind referred to in subclause (9) applies to any land ( affected land ), and (b) proposed development relates to the affected land and other land that together comprise the site of the proposed development, the maximum amount of floor area allowed on the other land by the floor space ratio fixed for the site by this Plan is reduced by the quantity of floor space area the covenant prevents being created on the affected land. (11) In this clause, public place has the same meaning as it has in the Local Government Act 1993 .


## Exceptions to development standards [sec.4.6]

4.6 (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows— (a) to provide an appropriate degree of flexibility in applying certain development standards to particular development, (b) to achieve better outcomes for and from development by allowing flexibility in particular circumstances. (2) Development consent may, subject to this clause, be granted for development even though the development would contravene a development standard imposed by this or any other environmental planning instrument. However, this clause does not apply to a development standard that is expressly excluded from the operation of this clause. (3) Development consent must not be granted to development that contravenes a development standard unless the consent authority is satisfied the applicant for development consent has demonstrated that— (a) compliance with the development standard is unreasonable or unnecessary in the circumstances, and (b) there are sufficient environmental planning grounds to justify the contravention of the development standard. The Environmental Planning and Assessment Regulation 2021 requires the development application to be accompanied by a document setting out the grounds on which the applicant seeks to demonstrate the matters in paragraphs (a) and (b). (4) The consent authority must keep a record of its assessment carried out under subclause (3). (5) (6) Development consent must not be granted under this clause for a subdivision of land in Zone RU1 Primary Production, Zone RU2 Rural Landscape, Zone RU3 Forestry, Zone RU4 Primary Production Small Lots, Zone RU6 Transition, Zone R5 Large Lot Residential, Zone E2 Environmental Conservation, Zone E3 Environmental Management or Zone E4 Environmental Living if— (a) the subdivision will result in 2 or more lots of less than the minimum area specified for such lots by a development standard, or (b) the subdivision will result in at least one lot that is less than 90% of the minimum area specified for such a lot by a development standard. When this Plan was made, it did not include Zones RU1, RU2, RU3, RU4, RU6, R5, E2, E3 or E4. (7) (8) This clause does not allow development consent to be granted for development that would contravene any of the following— (a) a development standard for complying development, (b) a development standard that arises, under the regulations under the Act, in connection with a commitment set out in a BASIX certificate for a building to which State Environmental Planning Policy (Building Sustainability Index: BASIX) 2004 applies or for the land on which such a building is situated, (c) clause 5.4. cl 4.6: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.1[7]; 2023 (524), Sch 1.1[1].


# Miscellaneous provisions


## Relevant acquisition authority [sec.5.1]

5.1 (1) The objective of this clause is to identify, for the purposes of section 3.15 of the Act, the authority of the State that will be the relevant authority to acquire land reserved for certain public purposes if the land is required to be acquired under Division 3 of Part 2 of the Land Acquisition (Just Terms Compensation) Act 1991 ( the owner-initiated acquisition provisions ). If the landholder will suffer hardship if there is any delay in the land being acquired by the relevant authority, section 23 of the Land Acquisition (Just Terms Compensation) Act 1991 requires the authority to acquire the land. (2) The authority of the State that will be the relevant authority to acquire land, if the land is required to be acquired under the owner-initiated acquisition provisions, is the authority of the State specified below in relation to the land shown on the Land Reservation Acquisition Map (or, if an authority of the State is not specified in relation to land required to be so acquired, the authority designated or determined under those provisions). Type of land shown on Map Authority of the State Zone RE1 Public Recreation and marked "Local open space" Council Zone RE1 Public Recreation and marked "Regional open space" The corporation constituted under section 2.5 of the Act Zone SP2 Infrastructure and marked "Classified road" Transport for NSW Zone C1 National Parks and Nature Reserves and marked "National Park" Minister administering the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974 When this Plan was made, it did not include Zones RE1, SP2 or C1. (3) Development on land acquired by an authority of the State under the owner-initiated acquisition provisions may, before it is used for the purpose for which it is reserved, be carried out, with development consent, for any purpose. When this Plan was made no land in the zones listed in the Table to subclause (2) was included on the Land Reservation Acquisition Map . cl 5.1: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.1[9] [10]; 2020 No 30, Sch 4.102[1]; 2024 (42), Sch 1.42.


## Classification and reclassification of public land [sec.5.2]

5.2 (1) The objective of this clause is to enable the Council to classify or reclassify public land as "operational land" or "community land" in accordance with Part 2 of Chapter 6 of the Local Government Act 1993 . Under the Local Government Act 1993 , "public land" is generally land vested in or under the control of a council (other than roads and certain Crown land). The classification or reclassification of public land may also be made by a resolution of the Council under section 31, 32 or 33 of the Local Government Act 1993 . Section 30 of that Act enables this Plan to discharge trusts on which public reserves are held if the land is reclassified under this Plan as operational land. (2) The public land described in Part 1 or Part 2 of Schedule 4 is classified, or reclassified, as operational land for the purposes of the Local Government Act 1993 . (3) The public land described in Part 3 of Schedule 4 is classified, or reclassified, as community land for the purposes of the Local Government Act 1993 . (4) The public land described in Part 1 of Schedule 4— (a) does not cease to be a public reserve to the extent (if any) that it is a public reserve, and (b) continues to be affected by any trusts, estates, interests, dedications, conditions, restrictions or covenants that affected the land before its classification, or reclassification, as operational land. (5) The public land described in Part 2 of Schedule 4, to the extent (if any) that it is a public reserve, ceases to be a public reserve when the description of the land is inserted into that Part and is discharged from all trusts, estates, interests, dedications, conditions, restrictions and covenants affecting the land or any part of the land, except— (a) those (if any) specified for the land in Column 3 of Part 2 of Schedule 4, and (b) any reservations that except land out of the Crown grant relating to the land, and (c) reservations of minerals (within the meaning of the Crown Land Management Act 2016 ). In accordance with section 30(2) of the Local Government Act 1993 , the approval of the Governor to subclause (5) applying to the public land concerned is required before the description of the land is inserted in Part 2 of Schedule 4. cl 5.2: Am 2019 (621), Sch 4.1[11] [12].


## Development near zone boundaries [sec.5.3]


## Controls relating to miscellaneous permissible uses [sec.5.4]

5.4 (1) If development for the purposes of bed and breakfast accommodation is permitted under this Plan, the accommodation that is provided to guests must consist of no more than 3 bedrooms. Any such development that provides for a certain number of guests or rooms may involve a change in the class of building under the Building Code of Australia . (2) If development for the purposes of a home business is permitted under this Plan, the carrying on of the business must not involve the use of more than 45 square metres of floor area. (3) If development for the purposes of a home industry is permitted under this Plan, the carrying on of the home industry must not involve the use of more than 45 square metres of floor area. (4) If development for the purposes of an industrial retail outlet is permitted under this Plan, the retail floor area must not exceed— (a) 20% of the gross floor area of the industry or rural industry located on the same land as the retail outlet, or (b) 400 square metres, whichever is the lesser. (5) If development for the purposes of farm stay accommodation is permitted under this Plan, the accommodation that is provided to guests must consist of no more than 3 bedrooms. (6) If development for the purposes of a kiosk is permitted under this Plan, the gross floor area must not exceed 20 square metres. (7) If development for the purposes of a neighbourhood shop is permitted under this Plan, the retail floor area must not exceed 80 square metres. (7AA) If development for the purposes of a neighbourhood supermarket is permitted under this Plan, the gross floor area must not exceed 1,000 square metres. (8) If development for the purposes of a roadside stall is permitted under this Plan, the gross floor area must not exceed 8 square metres. (9) If development for the purposes of a secondary dwelling is permitted under this Plan, the total floor area of the dwelling (excluding any area used for parking) must not exceed whichever of the following is the greater— (a) 60 square metres, (b) 30% of the total floor area of the principal dwelling. (10) If development for the purposes of an artisan food and drink industry is permitted under this Plan in an industrial or rural zone, the floor area used for retail sales (not including any cafe or restaurant area) must not exceed— (a) 20% of the gross floor area of the industry, or (b) 400 square metres, whichever is the lesser. cl 5.4: Am 2018 (406), Sch 2.3 [1]; 2018 (488), Sch 1.3 [2].

5.5 cl 5.5: Rep 2018 (106), Sch 2.20 [2].


## Architectural roof features [sec.5.6]

5.6 (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows— (a) to allow minor architectural roof features to exceed height limits, (b) to ensure that any architectural roof feature does not cause an adverse visual impact or adversely affect the amenity of neighbouring premises, (c) to ensure that architectural roof features are considered in the design of a building and form an integral part of a building's design. (2) Development that includes an architectural roof feature that exceeds, or causes a building to exceed, the height limits set by clause 4.3 may be carried out, but only with development consent. (3) Development consent must not be granted to any such development unless the consent authority is satisfied that— (a) the architectural roof feature— (i) comprises a decorative element on the uppermost portion of a building, and (ii) is not an advertising structure, and (iii) does not include floor space area and is not reasonably capable of modification to include floor space area, and (iv) will cause minimal overshadowing, and (b) any building identification signage or equipment for servicing the building (such as plant, lift motor rooms, fire stairs and the like) contained in or supported by the roof feature is fully integrated into the design of the roof feature.


## Development below mean high water mark [sec.5.7]


## Conversion of fire alarms [sec.5.8]

5.8 (1) This clause applies to a fire alarm system that can be monitored by Fire and Rescue NSW or by a private service provider. (2) The following development may be carried out, but only with development consent— (a) converting a fire alarm system from connection with the alarm monitoring system of Fire and Rescue NSW to connection with the alarm monitoring system of a private service provider, (b) converting a fire alarm system from connection with the alarm monitoring system of a private service provider to connection with the alarm monitoring system of another private service provider, (c) converting a fire alarm system from connection with the alarm monitoring system of a private service provider to connection with a different alarm monitoring system of the same private service provider. (3) Development to which subclause (2) applies is complying development if it consists only of— (a) internal alterations to a building, or (b) internal alterations to a building together with the mounting of an antenna, and any support structure, on an external wall or roof of a building so as to occupy a space of not more than 450mm &#215; 100mm &#215; 100mm. (4) A complying development certificate for any such complying development is subject to a condition that any building work may only be carried out between 7.00 am and 6.00 pm on Monday to Friday and between 7.00 am and 5.00 pm on Saturday, and must not be carried out on a Sunday or a public holiday. (5) In this clause— private service provider means a person or body that has entered into an agreement that is in force with Fire and Rescue NSW to monitor fire alarm systems.

5.9, 5.9AA cll 5.9, 5.9AA: Rep 2020 (501), Sch 2.7.


## Heritage conservation [sec.5.10]

5.10 Heritage items (if any) are listed and described in Schedule 5. The Heritage Map may also show the location of a heritage item. Heritage conservation areas (if any) must be shown on the Heritage Map as well as being described in Schedule 5. The location and nature of Aboriginal objects and Aboriginal places of heritage significance may be described in Schedule 5 and shown on the sheet of the Heritage Map marked " Aboriginal Heritage Map ". (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows— (a) to conserve the environmental heritage of the City of Sydney, (b) to conserve the heritage significance of heritage items and heritage conservation areas, including associated fabric, settings and views, (c) to conserve archaeological sites, (d) to conserve Aboriginal objects and Aboriginal places of heritage significance. (2) Development consent is required for any of the following— (a) demolishing or moving any of the following or altering the exterior of any of the following (including, in the case of a building, making changes to its detail, fabric, finish or appearance)— (i) a heritage item, (ii) an Aboriginal object, (iii) a building, work, relic or tree within a heritage conservation area, (b) altering a heritage item that is a building by making structural changes to its interior or by making changes to anything inside the item that is specified in Schedule 5 in relation to the item, (c) disturbing or excavating an archaeological site while knowing, or having reasonable cause to suspect, that the disturbance or excavation will or is likely to result in a relic being discovered, exposed, moved, damaged or destroyed, (d) disturbing or excavating an Aboriginal place of heritage significance, (e) erecting a building on land— (i) on which a heritage item is located or that is within a heritage conservation area, or (ii) on which an Aboriginal object is located or that is within an Aboriginal place of heritage significance, (f) subdividing land— (i) on which a heritage item is located or that is within a heritage conservation area, or (ii) on which an Aboriginal object is located or that is within an Aboriginal place of heritage significance. (3) However, development consent under this clause is not required if— (a) the applicant has notified the consent authority of the proposed development and the consent authority has advised the applicant in writing before any work is carried out that it is satisfied that the proposed development— (i) is of a minor nature or is for the maintenance of the heritage item, Aboriginal object, Aboriginal place of heritage significance or archaeological site or a building, work, relic, tree or place within the heritage conservation area, and (ii) would not adversely affect the heritage significance of the heritage item, Aboriginal object, Aboriginal place, archaeological site or heritage conservation area, or (b) the development is in a cemetery or burial ground and the proposed development— (i) is the creation of a new grave or monument, or excavation or disturbance of land for the purpose of conserving or repairing monuments or grave markers, and (ii) would not cause disturbance to human remains, relics, Aboriginal objects in the form of grave goods, or to an Aboriginal place of heritage significance, or (c) the development is limited to the removal of a tree or other vegetation that the Council is satisfied is a risk to human life or property, or (d) the development is exempt development. (4) The consent authority must, before granting consent under this clause in respect of a heritage item or heritage conservation area, consider the effect of the proposed development on the heritage significance of the item or area concerned. This subclause applies regardless of whether a heritage management document is prepared under subclause (5) or a heritage conservation management plan is submitted under subclause (6). (5) The consent authority may, before granting consent to any development— (a) on land on which a heritage item is located, or (b) on land that is within a heritage conservation area, or (c) on land that is within the vicinity of land referred to in paragraph (a) or (b), require a heritage management document to be prepared that assesses the extent to which the carrying out of the proposed development would affect the heritage significance of the heritage item or heritage conservation area concerned. (6) The consent authority may require, after considering the heritage significance of a heritage item and the extent of change proposed to it, the submission of a heritage conservation management plan before granting consent under this clause. (7) The consent authority must, before granting consent under this clause to the carrying out of development on an archaeological site (other than land listed on the State Heritage Register or to which an interim heritage order under the Heritage Act 1977 applies)— (a) notify the Heritage Council of its intention to grant consent, and (b) take into consideration any response received from the Heritage Council within 28 days after the notice is sent. (8) The consent authority must, before granting consent under this clause to the carrying out of development in an Aboriginal place of heritage significance— (a) consider the effect of the proposed development on the heritage significance of the place and any Aboriginal object known or reasonably likely to be located at the place by means of an adequate investigation and assessment (which may involve consideration of a heritage impact statement), and (b) notify the local Aboriginal communities, in writing or in such other manner as may be appropriate, about the application and take into consideration any response received within 28 days after the notice is sent. (9) The consent authority must, before granting consent under this clause for the demolition of a nominated State heritage item— (a) notify the Heritage Council about the application, and (b) take into consideration any response received from the Heritage Council within 28 days after the notice is sent. (10) The consent authority may grant consent to development for any purpose of a building that is a heritage item or of the land on which such a building is erected, or for any purpose on an Aboriginal place of heritage significance, even though development for that purpose would otherwise not be allowed by this Plan, if the consent authority is satisfied that— (a) the conservation of the heritage item or Aboriginal place of heritage significance is facilitated by the granting of consent, and (b) the proposed development is in accordance with a heritage management document that has been approved by the consent authority, and (c) the consent to the proposed development would require that all necessary conservation work identified in the heritage management document is carried out, and (d) the proposed development would not adversely affect the heritage significance of the heritage item, including its setting, or the heritage significance of the Aboriginal place of heritage significance, and (e) the proposed development would not have any significant adverse effect on the amenity of the surrounding area.


## Bush fire hazard reduction [sec.5.11]

5.11 Bush fire hazard reduction work authorised by the Rural Fires Act 1997 may be carried out on any land without development consent. The Rural Fires Act 1997 also makes provision relating to the carrying out of development on bush fire prone land.


## Infrastructure development and use of existing buildings of the Crown [sec.5.12]

5.12 (1) This Plan does not restrict or prohibit, or enable the restriction or prohibition of, the carrying out of any development, by or on behalf of a public authority, that is permitted to be carried out with or without development consent, or that is exempt development, under State Environmental Planning Policy (Transport and Infrastructure) 2021 , Chapter 2. (2) This Plan does not restrict or prohibit, or enable the restriction or prohibition of, the use of existing buildings of the Crown by the Crown. cl 5.12: Am 2022 (72), Sch 1.57[2].


## Standards that cannot be used to refuse consent—playing and performing music [sec.5.13]

5.13 (1) The consent authority must not refuse consent to development in relation to licensed premises on the following grounds— (a) the playing or performance of music, including the following— (i) the genre of music played or performed, or (ii) whether the music played or performed is live or amplified, or (iii) whether the music played or performed is original music, or (iv) the number of musicians or live entertainment acts playing or performing, or (v) the type of instruments played, (b) whether dancing occurs, (c) the presence or use of a dance floor or another area ordinarily used for dancing, (d) the direction in which a stage for players or performers faces, (e) the decoration to be used, including, for example, mirror balls, or lighting used by players or performers. (2) The consent authority must not refuse consent to development in relation to licensed premises on the grounds of noise caused by the playing or performance of music, if the consent authority is satisfied the noise may be managed and minimised to an acceptable level. (3) In this clause— licensed premises has the same meaning as in the Liquor Act 2007 . cl 5.13: Ins 2020 (724), Sch 3.


## Flood planning [sec.5.14]

5.14 (1) The objectives of this clause are as follows— (a) to minimise the flood risk to life and property associated with the use of land, (b) to allow development on land that is compatible with the flood function and behaviour on the land, taking into account projected changes as a result of climate change, (c) to avoid adverse or cumulative impacts on flood behaviour and the environment, (d) to enable the safe occupation and efficient evacuation of people in the event of a flood. (2) Development consent must not be granted to development on land the consent authority considers to be within the flood planning area unless the consent authority is satisfied the development— (a) is compatible with the flood function and behaviour on the land, and (b) will not adversely affect flood behaviour in a way that results in detrimental increases in the potential flood affectation of other development or properties, and (c) will not adversely affect the safe occupation and efficient evacuation of people or exceed the capacity of existing evacuation routes for the surrounding area in the event of a flood, and (d) incorporates appropriate measures to manage risk to life in the event of a flood, and (e) will not adversely affect the environment or cause avoidable erosion, siltation, destruction of riparian vegetation or a reduction in the stability of river banks or watercourses. (3) In deciding whether to grant development consent on land to which this clause applies, the consent authority must consider the following matters— (a) the impact of the development on projected changes to flood behaviour as a result of climate change, (b) the intended design and scale of buildings resulting from the development, (c) whether the development incorporates measures to minimise the risk to life and ensure the safe evacuation of people in the event of a flood, (d) the potential to modify, relocate or remove buildings resulting from development if the surrounding area is impacted by flooding or coastal erosion. (4) A word or expression used in this clause has the same meaning as it has in the Considering Flooding in Land Use Planning Guideline unless it is otherwise defined in this clause. (5) In this clause— Considering Flooding in Land Use Planning Guideline means the Considering Flooding in Land Use Planning Guideline published on the Department's website on 14 July 2021. flood planning area has the same meaning as it has in the Flood Risk Management Manual. Flood Risk Management Manual means the Flood Risk Management Manual , ISBN 978-1-923076-17-4 , published by the NSW Government in June 2023. cl 5.14: Ins 2021 (412), Sch 1[3]. Am 2023 (609), Sch 2.24[1] [2].


## Public bushland [sec.5.15]

5.15 (1) The objective of this clause is to protect and ensure the ecological viability of bushland, including rehabilitated areas in urban areas, by— (a) preserving biodiversity, habitat corridors and links between public bushland and other nearby bushland, and (b) preserving bushland as a natural stabiliser of the soil surface, and (c) preserving existing hydrological landforms, processes and functions, including natural drainage lines, watercourses, wetlands and foreshores, and (d) preserving the recreational, educational, scientific, aesthetic, environmental, ecological and cultural values and potential of bushland, and (e) mitigating disturbance caused by development. (2) Development that will disturb, or is reasonably likely to disturb, public bushland is permitted with development consent. (3) Development consent must not be granted to development that will disturb, or is reasonably likely to disturb, public bushland unless the consent authority is satisfied of the following— (a) the disturbance of the bushland is essential for a purpose in the public interest, (b) there is no reasonable alternative to the disturbance, (c) the development minimises the amount of bushland to be disturbed, (d) the development includes measures to remediate the disturbed bushland. (4) Despite subclause (2), development that will disturb, or is reasonably likely to disturb, public bushland is permitted without development consent if the development is for the following purposes— (a) the construction, operation or maintenance of pipelines to carry water, sewerage or gas or pipelines licensed under the Pipelines Act 1967 , (b) the construction, operation or maintenance of electricity or telecommunication lines, (c) bush fire hazard reduction, (d) the construction or maintenance of classified roads, (e) facilitating the recreational use of the public bushland. (5) Development specified in subclause (4)(e) is permitted without development consent only if it is carried out in accordance with a plan of management for the public bushland, adopted by the Council in the same way a plan of management is required to be adopted for community land under the Local Government Act 1993 , Chapter 6, Part 2, Division 2, that includes measures for the following— (a) the recreational use of the land, (b) bush fire hazard reduction, (c) the prevention of degradation, including the alteration of drainage patterns, rubbish dumping, vehicle intrusion and infestation with weeds or non-native plants, (d) the remediation of degraded public bushland. (6) This clause does not require development consent for clearing of native vegetation if the clearing is of a kind that is authorised under the Local Land Services Act 2013 , section 60O. (7) In deciding whether to grant development consent to development on land adjoining public bushland, the consent authority must consider the following— (a) the need to retain public bushland adjoining the site of the development, (b) the likely effect of the development on public bushland, including the following— (i) the erosion of soil, (ii) the siltation of streams and waterways, (iii) the spread of weeds and non-native plants within public bushland, (c) other matters the consent authority considers relevant to the protection and preservation of public bushland. (8) This clause does not apply to the following land that is public bushland— (a) land in Zone RU1, RU2, RU3, RU4 or RU5, (b) land reserved, dedicated or acquired under the National Parks and Wildlife Act 1974 , (c) land within a State forest, flora reserve or timber reserve within the meaning of the Forestry Act 2012 , (d) land to which State Environmental Planning Policy (Precincts—Western Parkland City) 2021 , Chapter 7 applies. (9) In this clause— disturb public bushland means— (a) remove vegetation from public bushland, or (b) cause a change in the natural ecology of public bushland that results in the destruction or degradation of the public bushland. non-native plant means a plant that is not native vegetation. public bushland means land— (a) on which there is vegetation that is— (i) a remainder of the natural vegetation of the land, or (ii) representative of the structure and floristics of the natural vegetation of the land, and (b) that is owned, managed or reserved for open space or environmental conservation by the Council or a public authority. cl 5.15: Ins 2022 (629), Sch 2[3].


## Canal estate development prohibited [sec.5.16]

5.16 (1) Canal estate development is prohibited on land to which this Plan applies. (2) In this clause— canal estate development has the same meaning as in the standard instrument prescribed by the Standard Instrument (Local Environmental Plans) Order 2006 . cl 5.16: Ins 2022 (629), Sch 2[4].


# Additional local provisions


## Acid sulfate soils [sec.6.1]

6.1 (1) The objective of this clause is to ensure that development does not disturb, expose or drain acid sulfate soils and cause environmental damage. (2) Development consent is required for the carrying out of works described in the Table to this subclause on land shown on the Acid Sulfate Soils Map as being of the class specified for those works. Class of land Works 1 Any works. 2 Works below the natural ground surface. Works by which the watertable is likely to be lowered. 3 Works more than 1 metre below the natural ground surface. Works by which the watertable is likely to be lowered more than 1 metre below the natural ground surface. 4 Works more than 2 metres below the natural ground surface. Works by which the watertable is likely to be lowered more than 2 metres below the natural ground surface. 5 Works within 500 metres of adjacent Class 1, 2, 3 or 4 land that is below 5 metres Australian Height Datum and by which the watertable is likely to be lowered below 1 metre Australian Height Datum on adjacent Class 1, 2, 3 or 4 land. (3) Development consent must not be granted under this clause for the carrying out of works unless an acid sulfate soils management plan has been prepared for the proposed works in accordance with the Acid Sulfate Soils Manual and has been provided to the consent authority. (4) Despite subclause (2), development consent is not required under this clause for the carrying out of works if— (a) a preliminary assessment of the proposed works prepared in accordance with the Acid Sulfate Soils Manual indicates that an acid sulfate soils management plan is not required for the works, and (b) the preliminary assessment has been provided to the consent authority and the consent authority has confirmed the assessment by notice in writing to the person proposing to carry out the works. (5) Despite subclause (2), development consent is not required under this clause for the carrying out of any of the following works by a public authority (including ancillary work such as excavation, construction of access ways or the supply of power)— (a) emergency work, being the repair or replacement of the works of the public authority required to be carried out urgently because the works have been damaged, have ceased to function or pose a risk to the environment or to public health and safety, (b) routine maintenance work, being the periodic inspection, cleaning, repair or replacement of the works of the public authority (other than work that involves the disturbance of more than 1 tonne of soil), (c) minor work, being work that costs less than $20,000 (other than drainage work). (6) Despite subclause (2), development consent is not required under this clause to carry out any works if— (a) the works involve the disturbance of less than 1 tonne of soil, such as occurs in carrying out agriculture, the construction or maintenance of drains, extractive industries, dredging, the construction of artificial water bodies (including canals, dams and detention basins), foundations or flood mitigation works, or (b) the works are not likely to lower the watertable.

6.2 cl 6.2: Rep 2021 (225), Sch 1.


## Public utility infrastructure [sec.6.3]

6.3 (1) Development consent must not be granted for development on land to which this Plan applies unless the Council is satisfied that any public utility infrastructure that is essential for the proposed development is available or that adequate arrangements have been made to make that infrastructure available when it is required. (2) This clause does not apply to development for the purpose of providing, extending, augmenting, maintaining or repairing any public utility infrastructure. (3) For the purposes of this clause— public utility infrastructure includes infrastructure for any of the following— (a) the supply of water, (b) the supply of electricity, (c) the disposal and management of sewage.


## Design excellence [sec.6.4]

6.4 (1) The objective of this clause is to deliver the highest standard of architectural and urban design. (2) This clause applies to development involving the erection of a new building or external alterations to an existing building. (3) Development consent must not be granted to development to which this clause applies unless, in the opinion of the consent authority, the proposed development exhibits design excellence. (4) In considering whether development to which this clause applies exhibits design excellence, the consent authority must have regard to the following matters— (a) whether a high standard of architectural design, materials and detailing appropriate to the building type and location will be achieved, (b) whether the form and external appearance of the proposed development will improve the quality and amenity of the public domain, (c) whether the proposed development detrimentally impacts on view corridors, (d) how the proposed development addresses the following matters— (i) the suitability of the land for development, (ii) existing and proposed uses and use mix, (iii) heritage issues and streetscape constraints, (iv) bulk, massing and modulation of buildings, (v) street frontage heights, (vi) environmental impacts such as sustainable design, overshadowing, wind and reflectivity, (vii) the achievement of the principles of ecologically sustainable development, (viii) pedestrian, cycle, vehicular and service access, circulation and requirements, (ix) impact on, and any proposed improvements to, the public domain.


## Car parking ancillary to other development [sec.6.5]

6.5 (1) The objectives of this clause are— (a) to identify the maximum number of car parking spaces that may be provided to service particular uses of land, and (b) to minimise the amount of vehicular traffic generated by a proposed development. (2) Development consent must not be granted to development proposing car parking spaces in connection with a proposed use of land if the total number of car parking spaces (including existing car parking spaces) provided in relation to the land would be greater than the maximum set out in this clause. (3) If the total number of car parking spaces under this clause is not a whole number, the total is to be rounded down to the next whole number. (4) The maximum number of car parking spaces is as follows— (a) for development for the purpose of residential accommodation— (i) 0.2 spaces per studio dwelling, and (ii) 0.4 spaces per 1 bedroom dwelling, and (iii) 0.8 spaces per 2 bedroom dwelling, and (iv) 1.1 spaces for all other dwellings, (b) for development for the purpose of retail premises, 1 space per 60 square metres of gross floor area that is used for that purpose, (c) for development for the purpose of centre-based child care facilities, 1 space per 100 square metres of gross floor area that is used for that purpose, (d) for development for the purpose of an information and education facility, 1 space per 200 square metres of gross floor area used for that purpose, (e) for development for any other purpose, 1 space per 100 square metres of gross floor area used for that purpose. (5) Development for the purpose of residential accommodation may provide the following number of reserved car parking spaces in addition to the maximum number of car parking spaces under subclause (4)— (a) 1 space per 6 dwellings for the first 30 dwellings, (b) 1 space per 10 dwellings for the next 40 dwellings, (c) 1 space per 20 dwellings for all dwellings in excess of 70 dwellings. (6) For the purposes of this clause— car parking space means a space intended to be used for the parking of motor vehicles that is ancillary to another land use on the site, but does not include any of the following— (a) a place primarily used for the purpose of washing vehicles, (b) a place primarily used for the purpose of loading or unloading of goods, (c) a place primarily used for the purpose of storing bicycles, (d) a car parking space in a car park. reserved car parking space means a car parking space that is to be used for the purposes of providing parking for visitors to the buildings to which those parking spaces relate and not for the purposes of providing parking for the residents of any such building. cl 6.5: Am 2017 (493), Sch 1.2 [2]. Schedule 1 (Clause 2.5) (When this Plan was made this Schedule was blank) Schedule 2 (Clause 3.1) State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008 specifies exempt development under that Policy. The Policy has State-wide application. This Schedule contains additional exempt development not specified in that Policy. Exempt development may be carried out without the need for development consent under the Act. Such development is not exempt from any approval, licence, permit or authority that is required under any other Act and adjoining owners' property rights and the common law still apply.


## Street art [sch.2-sec]

(1) Must not project more than 30mm from a wall or other surface. (2) Must not constitute signage. Signage includes advertisements and advertising structures. (3) Must not be located on a heritage item or within a heritage conservation area. (4) Must not contain material that— (a) discriminates against or vilifies any person or group, or (b) is offensive or sexually explicit. (5) In this clause, street art means art that is painted, marked or otherwise affixed to the outside of a building and that is visible from a public place (within the meaning of the Local Government Act 1993 ). Street art may only be carried out subject to requirements to obtain the approval of the owner of the building on which the street art is located or any statutory authorities (such as Transport for NSW). See also Part 2 of the Graffiti Control Act 2008 for graffiti related offences. sch 2: Am 2017 (751), Sch 1.2; 2020 No 30, Sch 4.102[2] Schedule 3 (Clause 3.2) State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008 specifies complying development and the complying development conditions for that development under that Policy. The Policy has State-wide application. This Schedule contains additional complying development not specified in that Policy.


# Types of development


# Complying development certificate conditions


## General conditions [sch.3-sec]

Any development specified in Part 1 is subject to the same conditions set out in Schedule 6 to State Environmental Planning Policy (Exempt and Complying Development Codes) 2008 . sch 3: Am 2017 (269), Sch 3. Schedule 4 (Clause 5.2)


# Land classified, or reclassified, as operational land—no interests changed


# Land classified, or reclassified, as operational land—interests changed


# Land classified, or reclassified, as community land
